hey
yo
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well what's going on
everybody
how y'all doing
you already get this bag
let's go
what's going on everybody welcome back
welcome back
hope you all are doing well doing well
excited you're here by and far
my favorite class
my favorite thing to to to share with
you all
is how to freelance and so
tonight i'm pulling out everything i
know all of the the things i've learned
over 10 years have been in this game
that will hopefully help you
land a paid client utilizing the skills
that you already have right now you know
some html you know some css you can get
a paid client you can start your
freelancing journey so we're going to
get into all of that this evening
you know how we like to do though going
to start off with some questions so the
question of the day
is we saw the
the the new trailer
new pokemon main series game so i gotta
ask you a really important question
what is the best
pokemon starter grass
fire
water electric
what are you feeling what are you
feeling
a scene in chat
a lot of fire
a lot of fire a little bit of water a
few grass here and there
and a few a few folks with the electric
[Laughter]
the the new starters just got revealed
uh the the fire starter looks a little
derpy like i like um the water starter
looks like what is the other one ducklit
and then the the
the grass cat i don't know i love my
grass starters but
i don't know we'll see we'll see wait
until the
evolutions come out
no clue i love it i've never played
pokemon i don't get it i i feel that's
all right it's cool
all right we got we got a good mix
i
i'm always grass i'll be grass until the
the day i'm done uh started off a
bulbasaur never looked back
alrighty all right cool
well thank you uh before we jump in
while we let folks get in here uh what
questions you got from me
i want to start off with a few questions
let folks get in here i know folks are
running home from work and things like
that so let's go ahead and get those
questions in while we give folks a few
seconds to get in here
what's your favorite food vegan pho
sorry two weeks late finally caught out
the watch class live hey welcome
thank you
civic
i'm still tricked by functions that's
all right
you come you come on sunday on sunday
we're going to review a lot of html a
lot of css we're also going to get some
javascript review in too so if you want
to see some cool layouts and then
actually use javascript for real like
take javascript and do real stuff with
it
come on sunday we're going to go through
oh that's a good one well yeah i'm
scared to freelance no need to be scared
we're going to go over all the big stuff
tonight don't worry about it
indifferent hey thank you for the gift
it subs i appreciate you thank you for
being here hope you're doing well
don't worry we're going to make
everything make a little bit of sense
you're going to have time to ask lots of
questions at the end of tonight's class
so if there are things that still don't
make sense we're going to do kind of
like a normal question and answer like
we normally do but the end of class so
as we're going through all this
freelancing stuff if there's stuff that
you're still scared about things that
don't make sense we have plenty of time
to work on that stuff
somebody said what is my favorite
freelancing project um well before i get
to that do we have enough knowledge to
land a paying client yes
already you have enough
information to land a paid client
so for folks that don't know i'm going
to bring this up a little bit we get
further in uh i
run a boot camp during the day right my
day job is running another boot camp
called resilient coders
and in that boot camp we have folks in
the sixth week of
program get a paid client so they
learned html they learn css and just a
little bit of javascript and then in
week six they have to get a paid client
in the five years
that i have been in charge of program
for that boot camp we have never had
someone not get a client
let that sink in for a second
in six weeks
five weeks technically because in the
six week they have to get the client
right
all right in the in the in the
in the sixth week after five weeks of
just html css and javascript in five
years hundreds of people we have never
ever not had someone get a paid client
because you all you need is html all you
need is a little bit of css and all you
need is the tips and tricks we're about
to cover tonight so if you have any
interest
in getting paid with the skills that you
already have
landing freelancing clients tonight's
the night
right we're gonna go through everything
i got to help you land those first few
clients and we have to realize like the
reason why
right the reason why this all started
the reason why 100 devs is even a thing
is because folks
were struggling still are due to the
pandemic and we wanted to see if there
was a way to get them the skills that
would help them get new jobs and to put
food on the table in the meantime this
is the way you do that right the
freelancing helps you
to be able to between now and getting a
job have some money coming in but also
to help you
get that job in the long run the
freelancing is not just a money play it
is a getting a job play and we're going
to break all that down this evening so
we're going to start from the beginnings
here's the agenda we're going to go
through tonight
we are going to
we go
we are going to go through what is
freelancing
we're going to talk about setting up
your online presence to enable you to
freelance to find those clients we're
gonna talk about finding actual clients
i don't care if you're in the us if
you're remote if you're in the middle of
nowhere it doesn't matter we're gonna
talk about different strategies for
everyone to find clients we're gonna
talk about proposals with real examples
i'm going to give you examples of the
proposals so if you watch this class you
can literally copy and paste proposals
copy and paste contracts copy and paste
templates
copy and paste uh
call like like uh
like pitches like we have everything
it's all here in this class we're gonna
talk about how to deliver for your
client how to manage that relationship
and then we're gonna talk about
reinvesting
in
continuing to grow your freelancing
empire and at the end we're going to
leave lots of room for questions so
as we work through it lots of things are
going to come up lots of concerns are
going to come up we'll share a slider
link in a few minutes
go ahead and put your questions in that
slider link that i'll share in a few
minutes and then at the end we'll go
through the top rated questions and make
sure everybody feels good and this won't
be our only time that we talk about
freelancing it's gonna come up over and
over again because you owe me a
freelancing client
if you're participating in this boot
camp you all owe me to get a paid client
it's one of the first big deliverables
you have at the end of this month you
need a signed
contract
at the end of this month you'll be
assigned contract you don't have to have
the project done most projects take two
to four months to complete but i need a
contract and i need it signed
all right let's get into it
you haven't checked in yet
if you haven't checked in yet go ahead
and check in for me go ahead and uh like
and retweet please let more folks find
this wonderful community let more folks
so many folks right now
need
a little bit extra money coming in so
many folks right now
need a second source of of ways to to to
put more food on the table so many folks
right now
need that belief in themselves that they
can do the things they need to do and to
provide for their family so let's make
it so that more folks can find us
and get those skills and have that
confidence in themselves to be able to
do things that they do and so please
like you tweet the more folks can find
us
cool
next
tuesday we have a networking event so uh
we'll be doing our study community
networking event uh we're gonna be
having some other networking events if
you're not part of a study community yet
don't worry so just know put on your
calendars a lot of folks ask for some
heads up for the networking nights next
tuesday networking night we're going to
talk a lot about freelancing skills
tonight
guess what we're going to be talking a
lot about how to talk to clients we're
gonna be talking a lot about how to get
someone to go from a cold call to giving
you money and then you're like leon
where do i practice that where where do
i where can i where can i talk with
someone to work through those those
ideas those concepts well guess what
next week we'll be doing some networking
and we're going to be a little bit of
practice for our freelancing as well
so next week keep it on your calendars
please
submitting work
uh you all have been tasked with reading
through javascript.info
and at the end of some of the
javascript.info chapters there is some
tasks so tonight for homework i want you
to submit those tasks you can either
submit the code you can submit a
screenshot it doesn't matter whatever
you can do to show that you did the task
that's what i want right so you can go
ahead and um
you can go ahead and just put it in a
code pen you can put it in a
um
a screenshot of what you did i don't
care just show me that you did it
yep there should only been one
or technically two but yeah
just the one is fine
cool
how do we submit the screenshot you have
to upload it to some sort of image um
re-hosting site
slim thug hey thank you for the fire
that subs hope you're doing well
thanks for being here
cool
alrighty
next
he wants to be fancy
who wants to who wants to to show up on
discord and everyone sees you everyone
you stand out amongst the crowd people
see you typing in discord and they go
ooh who's that right well tonight's your
chance to be fancy
uh if you clip
something of the stream
uh after
class i am going to have a thread where
you can share your clip
best clip gets a fancy color on discord
you will be the envy of all of your
friends we're only doing one a stream
two one a class right so you're talking
about if we only have 60 classes you'll
be one of 60 out of 27 plus thousand
right
so figure out how to clip during one of
our breaks and whoever has the best clip
posted in the thread you get the fancy
color
now leon why why are you doing this it's
not an engagement play i promise not
engagement play i want to
start sharing a lot of short form
content uh right now i
just looking at where eyeballs are
folks that are getting into tech that
are getting into
uh learning how to code they're not
investing as much as they used to in
three hour javascript classes right they
are looking for short form content to to
see if this could be right for them and
we got a lot of fun stuff to share with
them that might get them excited to then
come and join us live and invest in a
longer form boot camp and so i want to
take some of the better moments from
class the things that are really
educational the things that are really
funny and share that as short form
content and one way you can help me is
by clipping the fun stuff we do right
here all right and so i'm going to be
taking these clips i'm going to be
turning them into short form content
sharing them across other socials
so yeah
best clip get special color on discord
alrighty tonight
we are talking
about a lot of stuff
we are talking about money contracts
we're talking about entering into legal
agreements
and what i really need you all to
understand
is that i am not a lawyer
i am not a tax professional
i am not a cpa
i would rate my level of kind of
understanding this stuff and where i get
my major source of understanding is bird
law and this really isn't bird law right
so
what you have to realize
all right
this is just
my ramblings
as someone that has done this for the
past 10 plus years
right
you have to realize i'm not a lawyer i'm
not a cpa i'm not a tax professional
as you freelance things might come up
you might get into a quandary you might
get stuck somewhere i'm not the person
to come to you want to seek out
professional help if those things do
arise so
before we jump in tonight before we
start talking about
how to get paid clients how to freelance
i really want to make sure that you
understand
i am not a lawyer and none of this
is legal advice
i say that again
i am not a lawyer
and none of this
is legal advice
hold on one second
one second
all right
i am not a lawyer
and none of this is legal advice some
folks some folks like it when i'm bigger
i am not a lawyer
and none of this is legal advice
alrighty beautiful
i am not a tax professional
and none of this is tax
or financial advice
and one more time i am not a tax
professional
and none of this is tax
or financial advice
this is simply the ramblings of someone
who has done some of this stuff before
and
i think
i've
done a decent job at it
i think everything you could have [__]
up when it comes to freelancing i have
[__] it up i've i've
absolutely made all the mistakes that
are out there to be made
and
i'm trying to synthesize the things that
have helped save my butt
and the butts of my students in the past
but understand the only reason i'm able
to do that is because i've probably
messed it all up before so i hope
tonight you get excited about
freelancing i hope you get excited about
um
having this new avenue of expression to
to work with others to build really cool
stuff
but realize that it's a journey
right i'm synthesizing my journey my
perspective in an attempt to help you
cool
a big
disclaimer is that this is going to be
my perspective and so that's going to
heavily skew to the us and the uk
most of my contracting has happened in
the u.s and the uk
not that these skills won't be
applicable to everyone i really do think
the things we share tonight really
doesn't matter where you're located
doesn't matter where you're coming from
you can do the stuff we're going to talk
about tonight i just want to put that as
a disclaimer i'm from the u.s i know the
things that have been tricky in the u.s
but i might not know the very specific
intricacies of contract work in your
country or your location
right
so that's something to keep in mind
last cohort we had students from all
over the world we had students in india
get clients we had students in brazil
get clients we had students in the uk
get clients we had students in poland
clients we had students in all these
different countries that got clients i'm
just letting you know tonight my
perspective is that as someone that's
only really ever done client work in the
us and the uk cool
now the why
why
do i like to introduce freelancing so
early and why do i
like to make sure that all of my
students freelance
i have two major reasons why freelancing
is such a big component of all the boot
camps that i run
uh one
is about money and the other is about
experience i shared the the money
issue before but i'm going to just
reiterate it because i think it's it's
important it really does
highlight why i do this so for me
um
when i was in university i moved off
campus
and i would often spend the summers
working in labs or
trying to get an extra study in and
there came a point where i ran out of
money i didn't even have money for food
i started asking around to get help
nobody could help
and i was hungry
so
what i decided to do
was to see
if someone would pay me for the skills
that i had i had been building websites
web applications i had always had an
interest in entrepreneurship i had
always
wanted to build stuff and i had been
doing that i had had smaller projects
that i had launched but i really just
had html and css skills there was
nothing really fancy beyond that and so
for me i was like wait a minute
um let me see if someone will pay me for
the html and css skills that i have i
went on craigslist i posted hey i'll
build your website web application i am
in the city that i was in and literally
that day someone got back to me said yes
i need something built
they paid a deposit and i skipped my
whole way to the grocery store to buy
pasta and pasta sauce and i ate
handsomely for a very long time
that moment
changed my life
like that like if you think about like
if i think about my life
that that was it
in that moment
i knew
that i had a skill
that no one would ever take away from me
i had a skill that when i needed to turn
it on would put food on the table would
make sure that i
could live my life
and it it clicked something clicked my
brain that tech could be an equalizer it
could be a way if i if i honed those
skills to not only get paid but to have
a very different life and i had a
phenomenal life since that moment right
went on to raise millions of dollars in
venture capital i've built some amazing
companies i've taught a lot of folks
tech that have helped them get amazing
jobs as well
so for me the freelancing
is something that i want for every
single person that ever comes into my
classroom i want you to have that belief
in yourself
to be able to get the job done and get
paid
your life is different when you know you
don't have to rely on a boss we want to
rely on somebody else's job when you
know you can hustle
make good money and provide for yourself
and your family
so to me
that unlocks something in my brain in my
soul in my heart and in my life that i
want for each and every single one of my
students
and the honest truth is just with the
skills you have now
you can do it just html
just css
you can do it
i've had hundreds of students
with less skills than you have right now
get amazing high paid clients
i want that for you
now
like i said
at rc their bootcamp run during the day
in week six so after just five weeks of
learning our students
in the past five years have never not
gotten a paid client within that week so
tonight i'm teaching you everything that
they know everything that the last
cohort of 100 devs knows to get
jobs and sorry to get clients and to do
it quickly
we're going to talk about playing the
game i'm going to show you how to play
the game it's up to you to play it okay
now the second part
the second reason why getting a client
is so important has nothing to do with
just the initial money
it has to do with the fact that you
smell
every student coming out of a boot camp
has a has a has a stench
a scent
and every company you apply to the
recruiter the engineering manager they
can smell it
they can smell
that new engineer smell
right
and that stench
that smell
is what's going to stop you from getting
jobs and let me explain why
when somebody tries to hire an engineer
how much do you think it costs to get an
engineer in the door like to to find an
engineer that's going to start working
for you chat throw it in chat how much
do you think it costs to get someone in
the door
and ready to start working
that's some pretty good guesses
it's anywhere from like 10 to 30 000.
i work with a lot of companies that
really do spend that 20 to 30 grand per
hire so let's let's just for the sake of
argument take the higher amount
you spent 30k to get someone in the door
because remember it takes a lot of
interviewing time it takes a lot of
recruitment time maybe you're paying a
recruitment fee maybe you're paying for
the advertising to get those folks in
the door right so let's say 30 grand all
in to get someone in the door
now most engineers take anywhere from
like three to six months to fully ramp
up
right most engineers they join a new
team they start getting some small wins
some small tickets completed but like
really
three months
to get like up to speed and feeling
comfortable on the job
right sometimes
if you have a more complicated team a
more complicated stack poor
documentation that three months can turn
into like four or five or six
but let's say three months so
you hired an engineer
it cost you 30 grand to get them in the
door
and their salary is 100k a year
so it's going to take 30 grand to get
them in the door
30 grand to get them paid for those
first three months
probably another 10 grand on top of that
in terms of like benefits things like
that and maybe like another 10 grand in
terms of like relocation bonuses work
from home bonuses
paying someone on staff to take donate
their wing like let's say anywhere from
like 70 to 80 000
they get someone in the door
and within the first three months to
figure out if they're a fit
60 to 80 000
just to figure out if this person can be
a good fit for the company
right to see if they can be an engineer
that'll be there for the long haul
right and the sad thing is if you invest
all that money they're probably going to
stay there for one to two years and
they're going to jump ship to another
company so it is
super expensive
to get engineers in the door and working
and in those first three months you
might not be really sure if they're fit
yet and it might take you that 60k to
figure it out
so now when an engineer comes to the
doorstep
and they don't have anything
that proves that they could be a good
fit that stench is
overwhelming that scent is a proxy for
risk all of us as entry-level engineers
are way too risky
to hire
right that scent is risk
no company in their right mind can bring
on an entry-level engineer and risk
60 000
on a hunch on a few coding challenges
that you did well on maybe one or two
interviews that you knocked out the park
because even if you do that
it's still 60k on the line
so how do we get rid of this smell how
do we take a really good shower how do
we de-risk ourselves the number one way
to do it is to have someone that has
already employed you
if you've already been working for
someone else
the hiring managers the recruiters see
that and they go well it worked out with
those people so probably it'll work out
with us
that's why getting your second or third
job is so much easier than getting your
first engineering role
because if you've already worked for
somebody else for a couple of months a
year
then that risk that stench is gone
so
freelancing
is great we get the bag we get paid
clients but it's so much more than just
the money it's the shower it is the
getting rid of the stench it is the
de-risking of yourself so that more
hiring partners more recruiters can say
with gusto that you're a good fit you
should join their company knowing that
they're not risking
that 60k
right and the more clients you have the
more clients that are willing to be
references for you the easier it is to
get that first job i'm gonna show you
tonight some folks their portfolios
their contracts that took them from
never having worked in tech to working
at some of the biggest companies that we
all know i'm gonna show you exactly what
they did how they did it the messages
that they sent their portfolios their
twitters i'm going to show you
everything this evening and know that
freelancing is not just about getting
the bag it's also about getting the job
that makes sense
that makes sense why like why
freelancing is so important and why i
want that for you
cool
all right
now
i am going to show you
how to play the game
it is up to you if you want to play it
the things i'm going to show you tonight
i have been
called
shady for
i have been called scammy for
scummy for i have been called
[__] on
because what happens
when you have hundreds of people that
have gotten paid clients in five weeks
when folks that have been doing this for
five years haven't
is they get a little
they get a little touchy
they get they get a little they get a
little they get a little hateration in
their heart
right they get a little jelly
exactly
you get a little salty as i used to say
back in the day
all right
and the things i'm going to show you
are going to cut corners
the things i'm going to show you
are
going to be what folks that have never
done this before
might consider
not the right way
and my overwhelming response to them is
go [__] yourself
i have helped hundreds of students
that need the money
that need the clients to put food on the
table that are in
the worst of times due to the pandemic
this is for them it's not for you i
don't care about your hot take on
templates i don't care about your hot
take on free hosting
i don't care about your hot take on
stuff that you have no idea
what you're talking about
you can get out of here
and you can go [__] yourself all right
every time i teach this class
i get dms i already know i'm getting dms
on twitter well leon i don't know about
that template thing no you're wrong
just just don't just close your eyes
take out your headphones walk away don't
need you
what i'm about to talk about
are things that cut corners
but
at the end of the day you are still
going to provide amazing value to your
clients
and you're gonna do what's in their best
interest nobody else matters
right if at the end of the day your
clients are happy
they have the things that they want it
that's all that matters
they can go pound sand exactly so
i was going to throw out this disclaimer
now i'm going to teach you how to play
the game it's up to you if you want to
play it there are going to be some folks
out there
that want to say
uh that
it might be shady maybe a title
unethical
it might be [__] whatever else they
can conjure up but they haven't done it
and they haven't done it at the scale
that we've done it uh at rc or at 100
devs right and so
to the haters
xd thank you for the gift it subs uh to
the haters uh please
uh allow me a a brief reading
of the folks
that have played the game you ready
so i i sent out a
survey
uh to folks that that graduated
uh and we we had a lot of folks that
filled it out
uh so this reading goes out to all my
haters uh and one of the question was if
you landed a paid client
how much were your total contracts worth
and this is this is to a hundred devs
folks that have graduated from the last
cohort so allow me the reading
from last cohort just the folks that
filled out the survey if you graduated
and you're here and you haven't filled
out the survey i gotta bone the pick
with you fill out the survey please
we need you to fill out the survey so we
can we can share this with more folks
but a rating a reading okay this is from
100 devs graduates that did the co last
cohort
if you landed a paid client
how much were your total contracts worth
uh please include your local
denomination
first answer
28 000 so far this year
200 200
1000 canadian dollars 200 800 3 000
pounds
400 u.s dollars
no
400 200 8
two hundred one fifty two thousand two
hundred usd and they made a note that
said it was a static website
two hundred six hundred fifty dollars
fifty dollars all right whatever a
thousand currently negotiating
uh more contracts
250 500 250.
239.96
okay
two thousand one hundred five hundred
one thousand three hundred dollars five
hundred two fifty eighteen hundred
twelve hundred forty one hundred nine
hundred one thousand two hundred three
fifty 1600
1200 300
it keeps going folks it keeps going
and these are all folks from the last
100 devs
cohort
exactly jasmine bruh
so
i'm going to teach you
how to play the game
it's up to you if you want to play
but i just read out for the folks that
did play
but it was worth it to them
so you want to do
100 devs they said
well if you want to do 100 devs here's
the requirement
you owe me a paid contract by the end of
this month you don't have to have the
project done
i need the signed contract
with this side contract
the amount must be for 200
us dollars or more
and it cannot be a close friend or
family member member doesn't mean you
can't use friends or family to negotiate
and get somewhere else but 200 or more
no close friends or family members
it could be a friend from three years
back that the kid that sat behind you in
10th grade math class their fair game
no close friends no family members
200 u.s whatever that is in your
denomination now
there will be some folks that are not
able to freelance that this is i'm not
calling you out i'm not talking about
you um some folks um
if this would cause you harm please
don't do it uh if this would violate
your visa please don't do it uh if there
if taking or entering into a contract is
not something you're actually like
legally able to do
please don't do this there will be
exceptions there'll be other things to
do contributing to open source projects
um
working on larger project teams things
that volunteering there'll be other
things that you can do that'll get you
most of the same benefits
but i'm not talking to those individuals
i'm talking about the folks that have
the privilege of being able to do this
sign contract end of the month
it's a beautiful day it's the first of
the month you got a full month to do it
i'm going to show you how you can do it
no close friends or family it can be an
acquaintance
now
there's going to be a lot of questions
that come up
as we
work through
how to freelance and so here is the
slido for the evening you can do
exclamation point ask
right or you can just go to slider.com
and type in that number
uh at the end of the stream we're going
to go through the questions that are on
the slido
please upvote the questions that you
would want to be answered uh don't put
just generic stuff we're going to get
we're going to cover a lot of material
tonight so like don't jump the gun and
try and ask questions that we'll
probably answer as we go through but as
as things come up if you have questions
about them throw them in the slido
upvote the ones that you care to see
answered at the end we will answer them
together cool
we ready we're going to do this thing
i'll leave the slide up for a second
just so folks can grab the number if
they need it
yes please let's go all right
all right
we're going to jump into
what is freelancing
and
take it from there but one thing i want
on your brain before we go into this
i just read off a lot of numbers
you saw some that were at the 200 range
and you saw some that were in the
thousands of dollars range
the only
difference
between someone that got 200
and someone that got a couple thousand
was that they asked for a couple
thousand
when it comes to freelancing
they're gonna be some folks that
undervalue themselves and they're gonna
be some folks that value themselves
appropriately
that's it
that's all there is to it some folks
know their worth and ask for it and some
folks have to build up the confidence to
get there
you right now
have skills that no one else has the
folks that you're going to be working
with to build their sites to do this
freelancing they're not going to put in
the time that you put in
you're on class 15
hundreds of hours now spent in class
outside of class homework reading doing
building
no one that's running a business is
gonna take those hundred hours to do
what you just did so they can understand
what's going on in the things that
they're building folks come to me and
they say leon what about wix what about
squarespace what about all these things
and my question to you is do you know
how to use squarespace
because if you don't and you're an
engineer then somebody's running a
business won't they're not going to
spend the time to figure it out so what
you have to realize is that as a
freelancer
what people are paying you for is not
what you do
but all the things you had to learn to
be able to do the things that you do
and they pay you
right
they pay you
for the things
that you provide business value towards
right so remember they're not paying you
for fingers on keyboard they're paying
you for the business value that you
provide and all the learning and hard
work you had to do to get to where you
are
so what the heck is freelancing
um i love that this gif because it
highlights what freelancing really is
like in the u.s um
i think the the number is one in three
professionals is a freelancer right 36
of professionals freelance
and that's about 59 million americans
and so what the heck is it
freelancing means you're working as an
independent person or company
rather than being employed
by someone else
right
instead of being employed by a company
you're providing value or services to
another company right
and you're working independently
now there are a lot of other terms when
it comes to freelancing and your country
might have its own terms as well so you
might have heard people referring to
freelancing as self-employed independent
contractor contract job or contract work
or contract role might have heard the
term consultant or specifically in the
u.s 1099.
these are all terms to mean right
right
to mean right
that you are
an independent person not being employed
but providing value to that company
now in the us specifically we have two
different terms
we have w2 and 1099
folks that are employed by a company
they have at the end of the year a form
sent to them called a w-2
it shows them the salary they got paid
all the money that got taken out for
taxes right
an independent contractor at the end of
the year will get a 10.99 right it's a
form in the u.s each country has their
own thing so i'm just going to talk
about the us for right now
but each country each country has like
their own different way of doing it so
at the end of the year if you are a
independent contractor you will receive
a 1099
from a company that highlights how much
money you made but they do not do
anything else when you are a freelancer
or an independent contractor
no taxes are withheld you do not get
insurance you get no work extras no 401k
contributions no no
health benefits no contributions to
retirement right you get none of that
stuff
but
you get the full check
and you get to be your own boss
and you get to
offset or write off some of your
expenses
right
right and so
it's something to keep in mind that when
you work for someone as a w-2
you get all those taxes with how to get
those other perks but you're not your
own boss you're not writing off your own
expenses it's a different beast
and so i mentioned this
as a
huge huge bag
that if
you go this freelancing route
your taxes will not be withheld that is
on
you right it is the first thing i must
bring up to you remember i'm not a
lawyer i'm not a tax professional i'm
not a cpa
but please pay your taxes
when you work as an independent
contractor when you get at 1099 at the
end of the year
no taxes are withheld
what most contractors do is when they
get a job
30 to 40 percent of that job they put in
a savings account
right
at least 30 some people do 40 just to
feel a little bit more safe
right
because the company is not taking that
money out for you and sending it to the
government you have to send it yourself
and if you wind up freelancing a lot
you're eventually going to be paying
your taxes quarterly in the u.s so
remember if you are freelancing if you
are contracting if you are 1099 whatever
you want to call it where you are doing
work for another company but are not
currently employed by that company you
must set aside some money for your taxes
cool 30 40 is what most folks do
alrighty
now tonight
we're going to talk through
all the big things when it comes to
getting a client we're going to talk
about building our online persona and
i'm going to show you some examples
we're going to talk through how to find
clients we're going to talk through the
proposals that you're going to send to
those clients we're going to talk about
the contracts that you're gonna send to
those clients we're talking about how to
close a client like you you've got
somebody on the hook how do you seal the
deal and talk about delivering that
value and then reinvesting and building
your your empire
yeah
so
lots of stuff to get in tonight lots of
fun stuff to kind of dip our our toes
into
and
what you're going to realize
right is that
it takes a little while to get the
momentum going so a lot of this is
setting ourselves up to win a lot of
this stuff has to simmer before you can
start to generate leads and um
a lot of things we're going to talk
through tonight
we're going to get to in more detail
even as the cohort goes on
cool
echo yep always saved alrighty
all right let's talk about your online
persona
it's business folks
uh there is the the trifecta of your
online presence uh that you need
established if you're going to do
freelancing in my opinion
you want to have a solid portfolio you
want to have a decent twitter and a
decent linked in now
when folks
see this the portfolio the twitter the
linkedin they think it has to be
something
um
like really intense or well thought like
like
like a meticulous detail no it's
actually some stuff that are
very simple
to do you just have to do it the right
way so
the portfolios i'm going to show you
tonight are simple but effective the
twitter i'm going to show you is simple
but effective the link that i'm going to
show you is simple but effective
it's not something i need you to run off
and spend hours and hours and hours on
no we need to set up our baseline
all right make sure we have the basics
covered and then we have to let this
stuff marinate so
when you
start your
professional presence online
it's gonna take about six months for all
that stuff to really start showing up
right so you wanna start now
no matter if you want to use it down the
line you want to start now so that
over those six months it'll start to
show up now a lot of folks what i
recommend you start off with is using
your first name last name or your just
your name that you identify as as like
your presence online
some folks don't feel comfortable with
their like personal presence being
online and they'll start like an agency
or some sort of business entity or name
that they work under and that's
something you can do but it's way easier
when you use a name or a moniker or
something that you can be identified as
that works well for your portfolio
twitter and linkedin
right
i'm not talking about like setting up an
llc or anything like that we'll talk
about that at the end but just like it's
a decision you make am i going to work
underneath uh a business name or am i
going to work underneath my own name or
the name that identify as right
the the benefit of working underneath
your name is that it's easier to be
found
it is easier to enter into contracts
it's easier to kind of get a few leads
but it's a decision that you'll make
is an llc necessary not yet we're going
to talk about that at the end though
cool
now
let's talk about the trinity here
we have two examples that i want to show
you when it comes to portfolios
the first portfolio i'm going to show
you
is our mod extraordinaire blah
blah
got an amazing thousand dollar contract
and then an amazing job if you came to
the alumni panel uh you heard about the
job they landed the amazing salary that
they locked down uh
knowing that they went from kind of no
technical experience before to a senior
role for their first role and it's going
well
so i want to show you blah's portfolio
and when i was talking to them today the
thing they brought up is that
right now
they have
too much inbound interest where they're
literally turning down offers or handing
those those like clients off to other
people
and they literally just had somebody
reach out to them they handed that off
to another 100 devs member and that 100
devs member actually locked down that
client
right so i'm going to show you blah's
portfolio first and i want you to keep
in mind that they got
a great client paid a thousand dollars
they had more clients coming to them
that they passed the other folks that
then also got those clients they got an
amazing job right and let's keep our
let's keep our mind on that so let's
look at blogs first the this is their
link to their portfolio you can click on
it or i'll just type it in
here's where we are hi my name is
barbara i'm a full stack software
engineer uh please take a look around
and right off the bat they can say i
need a site or i need a dev right
they're they're just trying to say like
what are you looking for you need you
need a website built you need a
developer to join your team uh
is your web presence working for you
right and they kind of give a little
pitch about the things that they're able
to do
they show their past work they talk
about their services they give a little
bit about themselves and then the
ability to connect
so very
very
simple
right straight to the point nothing too
wild out here you don't have to
you don't have to really reinvent the
wheel each time here like it's it's good
but you're going to start to notice some
things as we move through here
[Music]
spectral salon let's take a look at this
what does this look like folks
what does this look like
people are like that's our homework
exactly
their homework but look at it look at
the way what they did here this is this
is expert what they did here this looks
like a real
salon
no one would ever know
that this was homework right that's what
i'm asking you to do when i say make
something your own
make it your own when you do homework
make it look like a real salon
right looks like a real salon you would
never know
say anything about some of their other
examples too right an artist portfolio a
face painting business right they look
like real sites so even if you don't
have clients yet you can build out three
sites that are probably just your
homework right
and add them to your portfolio
every single person that's been here and
has done the homework has stuff they can
use for their portfolio
all right now the other thing too is we
start to kind of like go down here i
notice something here we have like a
nice contact form
the beautiful thing is that you're like
i'm going to do contact forms i don't
know how to do email
if you use netlify for hosting which
we're going to talk about in a second
which is completely free
you can literally have a form that you
just put the netlify tag on right you
put netlify on the tag and then that's
it
that's it you're done
right netlify and you're done and your
forms just work it's literally an
attribute value pair and then your form
works and the and you can you can treat
it like you can start accepting emails
so you're likely i don't know how to do
forms i'm going to show you it's easy
just put netlify on there it's done no
php no any of that stuff
now the very last thing
is you'll see down here
hold on
html5 up
hmm
interesting
it's a template
our our fearless leader used a template
right
they did not code this from scratch
they used a template
right
you fill in the gaps and you keep moving
right because look
they got a thousand dollar client
they had so many people coming to them
that they literally had to hand off
clients to other people they got an
amazing six-figure job and they did it
with the template all right let's take a
look
next person
so this is sean uh sean was one of my
students at rc and now they've been a
tireless mentor at 100 devs and so
i wanted to keep theirs on there
sean went from kind of real no technical
experience just doing a little bit of
learning on their own to now working at
amazon uh their first client
right their first client was for
fourteen hundred dollars for one
thousand four hundred and ninety five
dollars
right
so they went from kind of no technical
experience
a bootcamp
and then landit an amazing client
and a fang offer
right let's take a look
at their portfolio
hi i'm sean your next software engineer
they're not they're not pulling any
pulling any stunts here they're saying
hey i'm your next software engineer hire
me today don't delay hire me today
right
and look at their last projects
some simple mirn stack stuff that we'll
do together some fun stuff that they
built but nothing here is wild a few
sites a few games a few full stack apps
and that's it
this portfolio
got them a great paying client and an
amazing job offer
once again
what do you think they're using
template using a template
right
don't waste your time so many folks
when they first think about freelancing
think they have to do all this crap
they think they have to
have an original design they think that
they have to set up an llc they think
they have to buy a domain they think
they have to uh have a business entity
they think they have to do all the
spending all this money
to get started
you can freelance for 100 free if you're
spending any money before somebody pays
you you have [__] up
if you have paid any money
at all i don't care about hosting i
don't care about the mains anything if
you've paid any money you have messed up
that first contract you locked down you
take that deposit and you can use it do
whatever the heck you want
all right but let's look
my favorite thing about this it's
changed now
it's changed now now they're making the
big bucks at amazon right so this
changed but look at their original link
to their portfolio
let's look at this
trials.netlify.app
what
you're telling me
you can get
a
over thousand dollar client
and an amazing job
without even buying a domain name
if you're hosting your stuff on netlify
not only is it free to host it on
netlify but you can get this lovely
netlify.app and nobody cares
nobody cares
all the stuff that's in your brain
saying i have to buy a domain i have to
buy a beautiful landing page no it just
doesn't matter
all this can be done for free
so i wanted to show you these two
amazing examples because they they took
something they made it their own and
then they focused on the stuff that
matters the stuff that matters is
actually talking with your clients
helping to provide value to them
building that relationship with them all
this other stuff you can set up in a
weekend you can do it for free you have
to pay a dime
all right all right
we're at the top of the hour
um
i want us to take our break and then i'm
going to tell you the thing that people
hate when i share all right we're going
to i'm going to do it and we're going to
they hate it when i share it so we're
going to come back to that let's go and
take our break
uh if you're new around here we like to
take a break at the top of the hour
we're in this for the long call we're in
this to be software engineers for the
rest of our career i'm gonna make sure
that we're if you're able we're getting
up we're moving around we're hydrating
we're letting our eyes focus on
something in the distance and we'll be
back in five minutes
so let's go ahead and put five minutes
on we're gonna keep looking at some uh
beautiful stuff when we get back
more tips more tricks
but the the big thing take away here
folks
you start freelancing 100 for free you
don't have to pay a dime to do this
not to pay for hosting not to pay for
domains you have to pay for templates
anything i'm going to show you how to do
it when you get back five minutes
i'll see you soon
history
do
forgot to run ads
and run ads for two minutes
so folks can join us
do
yeah nine seconds left on the end
alrighty folks
welcome back
alden regat oh no uh so folks that
weren't here last class i'm running ads
during the break because you should be
taking a break anyway and it stops folks
from not being able to join and getting
ads or some folks are getting like while
we're teaching ads so i don't want folks
to get ads while we're teaching so we're
just going to run ads during our breaks
always a grass type starter
thank you rockstar hope you're doing
well
am i required to run ads no i'm not it's
like not part of my agreement but which
will just run them anyway and so folks
were getting them while we were teaching
and that can't happen
all right folks come on back come on
back
let's do this thing
alrighty so
let's chill the music
already so
we talked about
we talked about two portfolios i gave
you two examples
of folks
that
there's no technical experience before a
boot camp right just a little bit of
learning on their own
went from building out a portfolio that
got them over a thousand dollars each
and also both six-figure jobs right so
those portfolio examples i'm going to
show you where you can get similar
templates in a second
the next thing i want to show you are
twitters
there's two people that i think that
have done twitter really well that i
want to highlight
one is naya who was one of my rc
students and now has been a fantastic
mentor uh for a hundred devs they did a
t-spill uh last cohort where they shared
everything that they did
they are the person that has gotten the
like highest paid client i've ever seen
out the gate
and so
they shared all the details of how they
landed a 70 000 client
what
first client right off the gate uh so i
wanted to highlight them again
because they they destroyed the game
and so they did two things that i really
loved
uh their twitter changes every once in a
while every once in a while like what
what what they share on their twitter
but i love
their sayings whenever you look at their
twitter
they do something really well
uh so the original one they had was your
inclusive tech leader founder and cto of
afros and ai so they branded their
their agency as afros and ai they label
themselves software engineer and black
tech twitter as like the hashtag of
choice right when you come to their
twitter that's what you see that's what
you think they are like that like you
have no idea who nia is you see that and
you're like boss mode right same thing
they've
an earlier one they had with software
engineer abolitionist community right
they put the things in there they care
about right even now they change their
twitter to earth and code it's the same
thing they talk their talk they show
their strength
and i bring this up
return of the z a thank you
i bring this up
because
the way you describe yourself
the way you talk about yourself
is
what people are going to believe about
you right now nya can talk to talk and
walk the walk right
but so many folks
i see when they start their freelancing
journey still have
aspiring
in their in their twitter bio i'm an
aspiring software engineer they have a
junior and they're in there and they're
in their title right
no one wants to hire an aspiring
software engineer
no one wants to hire
a junior software engineer
you're a software engineer you have
aspiring if you have a junior take it
out of your title
now
no one's going to hire you with that in
your title talk your talk and then walk
that walk right
so definitely give naya a follow they're
an amazing developer
um
and they're a really good example
of how to
through hard work and really good
community building will amazing clients
and amazing contracts
cool
the other person we can't talk about
somebody that's amazing and able to
build
uh great relationships and land amazing
clients without talking about sam
so sam is a hundred devs alumni
they're now a developer advocate a
material ui
and they share some of the
best
right the best right some of the best
information on how to freelance how to
get clients and they have a phenomenal
story about how they went from learning
the technical skills and immediately
applying them uh to bring in
more money than they were at their
normal job and so i love
the advice that they share and they've
helped a lot of other 100 devs folks
make more money
get better clients get bigger contracts
and so that's why they have their own
hashtag sorry their own their own
command here in chat you can do
exclamation point sam and get their link
as well but definitely give nai and sam
a follow they're two people that i know
have done the best
at
taking the raw skills they have and
translating it into clients and their
twitter is something that you'd want to
model as well now
we're going to talk about how to build
those relationships as we kind of
continue on but the reason why a
portfolio and twitter are so important
is because twitter ranks really high
so if you are trying to get like the the
the above the fold on google stacked
with your name or your agency name
twitter is that thing that's going to
help boost in the search engine results
and so
some folks don't feel too comfortable
twitter but you got to get comfortable
with it because it will help any of your
other stuff rank a little bit higher
right so that's why i push twitter
last is linkedin
when folks are trying to evaluate if
they're going to work with you
to build their like products they're
typically going to google you and
hopefully they find your portfolio
they find your twitter and then a lot of
folks will look for your linkedin and a
lot of folks
kind of freak out about their linkedin
so i'm going to show you a linkedin of
someone that's gotten good clients but
also has gotten a great job uh so andy
is one of my past students
and
um i just want to show you their
linkedin and i have permission to share
all this stuff like i'm not putting
people on blast i asked the permissions
when i first did the the cohort uh so
here's andy's linkedin
and i they're they're an engineer at
draftkings
and i want to show just kind of their
their basic activity they have their
experience as an associate software
engineer they have their experience at a
boot camp and they have the thing they
did before
that's it
three things you're gonna see this
pattern come up over and over again of
three
things i don't care what you've done in
the past i don't care what you're going
to do in the future you really only need
three
things all right so you saw one thing
from their past their boot camp and
where they're at now if we go back and
we look at at sean's examples right if
we look at sean's resume you're gonna
see this pattern of three show up again
they have
what they did in the past
they have uh what they're doing now and
their boot camp experience
right and so
what you're going to have happen
is that i'm going to share
eventually resume templates right and
other templates as we kind of go on
we're always going to have this like
rule of three where you're going to talk
about something you've done in the past
and talk about your boot camp experience
and until you get a job your third thing
is your freelance experience
right you're going to talk about a past
job
your current your current experience
right and then your freelance experience
and so we're going to put that on our
resume we're going to put that on our
linkedin and the way we talk about it
right the way we talk about it is we
talk about your past experience framing
it
framing it as something that's going to
lead you to tech you talk about your
boot camp experience not as a boot camp
we never put those words anywhere on our
resume our linkedin our portfolio we
talk about 100 devs as an agency
and if folk give you pushback you say
the agency has a training program and
that's what you're all in right you're
you're all in 100 devs academy right
you're in the training program of the
agency and then you have your own
freelancing whatever you want to call it
first name last name consulting whatever
you want to call it those are the three
things that you're going to put on your
resume you're going to put them on your
linkedin you're going to put them on
your portfolio and you don't have to
stress about other stuff if you want to
fill in more stuff you have a longer
work history that's okay but a lot of
folks are coming to us with maybe a
shorter work history
or some gaps and so those three things
are what fill the gaps and
your freelancing is smaller or larger
depending on the gaps that you have to
fill if you haven't worked for the past
year do the pandemic it's the best time
ever to say oh i was freelancing for
that past year if you have a larger gap
well guess what you are freelancing
during that gap and then you're going to
get clients that are references that
help you get past that smell and help
explain that gap
now
as we start to work
in the future
i'm going to give you resume templates
i'm going to give you linkedin templates
i'm going to give you all this stuff
it's going to make it easier to build
out those presences in terms of gearing
for a job but
this week for your homework i'm going to
ask you to build out your portfolio and
actually build out your twitter i'm
going to ask you to build out your
linkedin you're going to keep it simple
just enough that when you're talking to
a client and they google you or they
look at you on linkedin or they look at
you on twitter they see something and
they go oh okay i can talk to this
person
that's all we're working about that's
all we're worried about for right now in
the future we'll build more stuff we'll
do more stuff etc
now some folks are currently working
somewhere great that's one of your three
right you're gonna have wherever you're
currently working and then either 100
devs or you're freelancing but keep it
simple nothing too wild
cool
now the thing that i get the most hate
for
the thing that um
i know i got a dm already for like i
just i just whenever i talk about this
especially we got so many people here i
just don't have a dm about it and
there'll be some person that's gonna be
like well i don't know about this go
[__] yourself all right so
here you go
are you a developer true
are you a designer probably not some of
you are though
right
so if you're a designer equals true then
you should go ahead and design your
portfolio
but if you're not a designer or designer
is set to false you should use a
template
okay
so are you a designer if so go ahead and
design the portfolio of your dreams
but if you're not a designer get out get
over it use a template
and here's the other thing too
if you're not a designer and you're
working for a client
use a template
for your clients huh i gotta get bigger
if you are not
a designer
use a template for yourself
and use a template for your clients
remember
your job is to provide value to your
clients
they are going to appreciate the cost
savings that you provide to them by
using a template
if they had to pay for a designer to
design something and then for you to
build it that cost real
money
so by using a template they wind up with
something very professional
something that helps them accomplish
their business goals it saves them money
and it's easier for you that is a
win-win
win
we all agree all right
can we tell them that
that's up to you
some folks come off the cuff i use
templates it saves you money some folks
don't tell their clients to use
templates and they go that's kind of up
to you that's your move that's what i
said i'm going to show you how to play
the game
it's up to you how you want to play and
how you want to play it
some folks don't snitch on themselves
some folks snitch on themselves it's up
to you
how smooth a talker are you
will your client care will your client
even know what the heck you're talking
about
right
can i share something that i that i'm
allowed to tell you
lawless client
wanted a wix website
let's sink in for a second thousand
dollar client
wanted it done on wix
all right you want it done on wix i'm
happy to do it do you know how to use
wix the client will say no great i will
build you the site of your dreams on wix
it's going to cost a thousand dollars
right
that's that's how the conversation went
right remember it's about the value you
provide not the tools you use
alrighty now i've shown some templates
uh the place i like to start with
templates
right the place i want to start with
templates is html5 up
um they're completely free and from what
i could find uh they're just not shady
uh a lot of these places where you
download free templates it's always
weird stuff weird ads i don't know it's
a hot mess
but html5 up from what i can see and
what i've used
are
pretty good templates just regular html
nothing more wild than html and css
right
completely free to use and no shady
stuff
and um
you'll notice as you look through html5
up i think we broke it oh great
as you look through it you'll start to
notice some stuff wait a minute oh
this editorial template
that looks pretty similar
and if we keep scrolling
let's see
where's the other oh this photon
template
looks kind of similar
i don't know
we gave it the old 100 devs hug of death
that's all right it'll come back up when
we're done all right so
html5 up completely free easy to use
free to download has helped
lots of folks get high paying clients
why would you use anything else
right why would you use anything else
well
after you get your first client
right
you want to reinvest
right you want to reinvest
and so
after your first client you might move
on to some more
advanced templates that are a little bit
closer to the niche or the the the job
that you're trying to do and you might
look at things like rap bootstrap or
theme forest these are like pretty
popular places to get templates there
are so many other places to get
templates but the idea here is you don't
do this on your first your first rodeo
right
after you get
some money coming in the door you can
always upgrade but the idea here is that
you can do it for
free
cool
hosting
you can do it
for
free
netlify.com drop is the easiest hosting
you will ever find
you literally take your folder
and drag it to the browser window and it
is hosted
you can then change the domain to
whatever you want it to be
at netlify.app
right
100 free
i have
so many clients and i know so many of my
students have their clients
solely on netlify entirely for free
because for most of the client you're
working with early on you're talking
more like mom and pop businesses lower
traffic where it just
it just doesn't just doesn't matter
right how much traffic they're going to
get they're just not going to get a lot
right and so netlify is completely free
you get a netlify app if you want and
then if they want to get a domain you
charge them for like you put that in
part of your proposal
right
this works everywhere yeah um it should
work for pretty much everyone it's
completely free hosting it's super easy
to host stuff you literally drag your
folder into the browser and it's hosted
that's it
that's it you're done right so you don't
have to worry about hosting you don't
have to worry about templates it's all
free
how do how is it free how do they make a
profit well it's very cheap to host
static sites and by static we just mean
like html css a little bit of javascript
now that's kind of trivial to host it's
very little money but they want you to
integrate netlify as your development
tool right so um now that i build bigger
sites with beefier front ends i still
use netlify i got got they hooked me
with free stuff that i use for myself
and all my clients but as i want more
featureful stuff i want bigger stuff i
want other stuff then you pay a little
bit right but the idea here is that you
don't
you have to pay out the gate just works
it's free it's easy to use
uh yeah
but it's not but it's it's very like i
don't want to like say that people like
oh like i'm gonna no it's just that
there are other services that they
provide and once you're already in the
ecosystem it's just easy to use those
other services too
juicy said do we need to write
server-side stuff for these basic
websites that's up to you and your
client a lot of the first clients you'll
probably work with won't have back ends
and if you do get with a client that
wants a back-end we're going to talk
about how to handle that in a bit
domains
uh i showed you someone that got
that got
an amazing high paying client
a job at a fang company and they just
use
netlify.app so you don't need anything
other than netlify.app for yourself
a lot of times your clients will want to
put their site on their own domain
right and so what i'll typically do is
i'll have them buy a domain on one of
these two registrars or if you want your
own domain you can buy it on these two
registrars
i love namecheap i've been a namecheap
customer for 10 years now plus probably
um they have always had amazing support
whenever something's been a problem um
they they have helped me they've gone
out of their way um they they do all
they do the most right they do the most
in the best way possible and they've
just been a phenomenal host right so a
phenomenal domain host provider right um
and so for me i use namecheap for all my
domains
now sometimes uh namecheap doesn't have
uh
like the special tlds like the really
weird endings like not.com.org but like
the weird ones and when i want a weird
one that namecheap doesn't have i use i
want my name right so name cheap and i
want my name are pretty much what i use
for all my domains you don't really look
anywhere else um
i love namecheap uh an interesting and i
do it for right now
like 70 of their employees are from
ukraine and so right now they're getting
a lot of
like namecheap is doing right by their
employees which i always love to see
and so if you're interested in
supporting a company that employs
ukrainians like that's just another
value add
for namecheap right now
cool
articus hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
what about godaddy no
just know
godaddy is a horrible company
with horrible support the most
misogynistic commercials i've ever seen
like no just stop
godaddy is the papa john's of the domain
world exactly godaddy is the papa john's
of the uh domain world and normally i'm
pretty like i don't i don't like to make
i don't like to say stuff like that on
stream but no they they deserve no just
don't use godaddy namecheap is amazing i
want my name is amazing
and just don't like
this is like one of the things where
it's like just take my advice on these
two please um there's so many other
domain providers that that are out there
i've used them all like i've used a lot
of them and i just constantly come back
to these two because it just they just
work they get out of your way they have
great support a lot of the other domains
are kind of owned by like two or three
big companies and so even if you think
like they're separate they're not
namecheap is now kind of part of one of
those but
yeah
just just don't go you won't go wrong
using these two
cool
and none of these are like just to put
out there none of these are like none of
these links are like scammy like
none of these are like referral links or
anything like that like i would never
use those without like yeah i would just
never use those so these are just like
my actual opinions there's no like
referral link or anything happening
there
cool
all right so now we've talked about
how to
set up your online presence you now have
a decent portfolio that's using a domain
for free hosting for free templates for
free you set up a twitter that has a
great intro that explains that you are a
software engineer not aspiring not
junior you got rid of all that stuff
during the break and you have a linkedin
that's just simple you're keeping it to
three things so that way all that stuff
can start to marinate
right all stuff can start to marinate
and when folks eventually look for you
online they find those things so now
we're gonna talk about finding clients
this is the part where folks get a
little
a little scared a little a little a
little shooketh
but it's not it's not wild i'm going to
give you a process uh that has worked
for all of my students and we're going
to go through it together cool
when you're looking for clients
right
start close
tell your friends
tell your family
and post on social media all your social
medias even if you gotta dust off the
facebook and post for the first time in
three years
put everything out there
you will be surprised when you talk to
your friends
that
somebody from your your your third grade
soccer team
there they now run a barber shop and
they need a website
right
tell your family you never know your
brothers cousins uncles best friends
twice removed
they they
they're starting a new coffee company
and they need a new website
the more you put out there to your
friends and your family and honestly
explain to them what you do hey i'm a
software engineer i build websites and
web applications for different clients
if you ever know someone that needs a
website or web application send them my
way it's that simple but tell all your
friends tell all your family
you will be surprised who comes out of
the woodwork
to say oh i heard from so and so that
you do websites or web applications i
need help right put it on your xanga put
on your aim away message exactly
whatever whatever you got put it out
there
right by telling your friends and family
you will be surprised i i say this every
single time i teach this class and i get
all these messages leon somebody twice
removed from church his best friend's
brother they they want me to build
something and they get the client so
please tell your friends tell your
family and then share it on the social
media that you have and you will be
surprised what comes to you that's the
first place you're going to get clients
right
now
the next thing you want to start doing
is going local
right all of you are networking
locally
right the idea is that
you try going local first
and then if locals not
the bee's knees you go to the closest
metro area
is the same thing for freelancing
the
being local
is the biggest advantage you will ever
have when it comes to freelancing
we're going to talk about ways for folks
that live in the middle of nowhere that
don't have a local area to to network
with or to get clients from we're going
to talk about how to do that
but you have to understand for folks
that do have the ability to be local
that is your biggest
advantage and so you want to make sure
that as you are networking you are
introducing yourself appropriately
when you're going to these meetups
you're going to these events right and
you introduce yourself you say hey i am
so and so i am a software engineer and i
build websites and web applications for
clients in the and then you say wherever
you're from so i would say hi i'm leon
i'm a software engineer i build websites
and web applications for clients in the
la area
i do that to every
single person i meet southpaw said what
if i don't want my current employer to
know we are doing this don't tell them
they don't know what meetups you're
going to they don't know where you're
where you're going you might be a little
bit safer on your social media um but
that's that's up to you i'm going to
show you how to play the game and what's
up to you you want to play and how
you're going to play it
right
so um the the joke that people always
give when i when i when i mention this
is that if you ever watch the office
there's one character that does this
amazingly well it's bob vance
bob vance vance refrigeration throughout
the entire show
bob always introduces himself as bob
vance vance refrigeration you will never
meet bob vance from vance's
refrigeration and not know what they do
it seems funny
but it works every single person that
has ever watched the office knows who's
bob vance is and they know what they do
who like if you think about any other tv
characters do you know what their
profession is like off the rip
this is like a secondary a minor
character in a show and we all remember
what the profession is because that idea
works and so when you're going to these
meetups bob's burgers exactly when you
go to these meetups
it it sounds a little silly at first but
hey i'm leon nice to meet you i'm a
software engineer i build websites and
web applications for clients in the la
area uh how are you doing what do you
what are you why did you come here
tonight right like it's it seems a
little odd at first but the more you do
it the easier it becomes and then every
single person you meet you build that
relationship with knows what the heck
you do
and you're local to start
right
you're local to start and so
as you're networking you're meeting
these folks locally start telling them
what you do and maybe off the rip with
the the introductions a little bit hard
but maybe try and let folks know
throughout the conversations
now
you've told your friends you've told
your families you've put it out there on
social as you're networking you're
letting folks know what you do that's
like how like 70 of my of my students
get clients like off the rip 70
friends family
um
social media and networking that's like
of how folks get clients it just works
right
next
is listings
using local
listings
so local listings are things like
craigslist
facebook marketplace facebook groups
next door your local chamber of commerce
right any of these places that are local
now
a lot of them are crap
like a lot of them just don't work
or there's a lot of weird stuff that
happens on them but a lot of my students
still get amazing clients heck i even
get amazing clients from things like
craigslist like you you're like what
it's not gonna be your main vertical
it's not gonna be the main way you get
clients but it's worth it to check once
a week and to post once a week if you're
able that hey i'm a local software
engineer you put in big bright letters i
am local i will meet you at and you
insert the famous hot dog site i would
love to talk to you about your web
development needs right remember
remember
the the local thing is your shtick
when folks are putting stuff on these
listings or putting it out there
they're going to get inundated with like
hundreds of messages of folks that are
not local you have to infuse the
localness in the way you talk the lingo
that you use and the messages that you
send right so if you are talking to
someone you say like hey i'm a local to
nashville let's go to this wonderful hot
dog psych and talk about your project
right you got to infuse that locality to
help you stand out we're going to talk
about other folks that are not local
we're going to talk about in a second
but local is your value ad it is the
thing that will help you stand out from
the onslaught of other folks that are
reaching out on these listings now
you've done friends you've done family
you've done social you've done told
every single person you've been
networking with remember you're
networking every week you owe me three
coffee chats i'm sorry three network
connections and two coffee chats a week
that's a lot of folks that now know you
are a freelancer
and it compounds the more you network
the more people that know the more
people that are willing to
come your way you're now putting out on
all these listings you're talking to
folks on facebook marketplace you're
talking in facebook groups that are
local to you you're doing all these
things you now have like a strong
face
the next step
is to talk to places that you know
right the places that you go to
right
your barber
the nail salon the hair salon the
restaurants right look at the places
that you know
is there something that they don't have
about their web presence do they have a
web presence
right
help them
right you know them you know they're
they're they're offering best
talk to them
right a lot of my students first clients
are their barbers a lot of my first
students are the restaurant that they've
been going to since they were little
that doesn't have a website
right now a lot of these local places
are hurting uh folks want digital when
the when kovitt hit like the people went
digital and so if they haven't kept up
with that wave they're missing out on a
lot of clients they're missing out on a
lot of opportunities you could provide
them tremendous value by helping them
modernize or making whatever they did
sign up with during the pandemic
actually work better
right
and so you've now told friends family
you you've put on social you've been
networking and telling everyone you've
done the listings you talk to the places
you know
the next thing is to be outbound
pick a niche and go for it
so
uh when i used to teach in the classroom
and rc
we would do we call it we call this
process hustle week so they have you
have five weeks of instruction and then
your six week we have off and all you do
is get a client right hundreds of folks
in that week you've gotten a client
but every once in a while we have some
students that struggle
and so one of the very first times i did
this we had a small group of folks that
were struggling and so i said hey
let's get a client together today and
that's what we did
we
did a three-step process that got us two
clients in one day
let me say again two clients one day so
in the morning
we picked a niche we said we're we were
located in boston he said all right
what's that what's your niche what what
what can we help folks with like who can
we provide value and what are there a
lot of and so our answer was restaurants
we said all right well restaurants right
now are having to modernize they're
having to go online they need digital
menus they need ability for folks to
order right they're getting if they're
competitors on uber and they're not
they're they're getting disrupted right
and so we're like we could probably
provide a lot of value
to restaurants and help them modernize
and come online
and so we said all right we're gonna go
at restaurants
and for two hours
all me me and my students that were
doing this process with me we compiled a
list of every single restaurant in
boston it only took us like two hours to
put it up against all of us we found all
the restaurants in boston
and uh
mecca pre hey
609 thank you so much for the 10 gifts
it subs that's wild
thank you so much thank you for being
here appreciate you
all right we take we made a list of all
the restaurants and so i'm going to
share a list of restaurants all this is
public info but don't be like a weirdo
and start calling people or anything
like that these are all restaurants that
um were in boston
and we found them
and we put we
found their their business name
right
and then we
said do they have a website
and is it shitty
i should probably need to change that uh
so we just we just found all these we
found all these places and we split it
up by different people right so there's
different different people for different
different restaurants right but we found
all these restaurants we said do they
have a website and is it bad
and then we dialed for dollars
right we said all right we have all
these restaurants we found them all
we're gonna start calling
and our goal is if they don't have a
website to get them a website and they
have a bad website to get them a better
one right and so we we start dialing for
dollars
and um you'll notice we kind of have
like three different color combinations
uh red was uh they didn't answer or they
told us to [__] off they're just like
don't ever call me again
um
and then
blue was like we couldn't talk to the
manager or something weird was happening
and green was like they were interested
like they were like all right like like
we left a message or like there was
something that we could probably reach
back out to them again and so what
you'll notice is that like we're like
half of them we told like like we got
rejected
the other like third like nobody like it
just didn't we didn't work out and like
a third was like people that were like
oh interesting tell me more nobody picks
up the phone anymore they're not getting
called they're not getting calls and
they're not getting calls from people
that are local remember local is an
advantage right and so we were like all
right
i'm not some sales guru i've run sales
teams in the past uh but these are some
folks that have never sold anything in
their life so for folks that were not
charismatic
that some people are saying charismatic
some folks that have never dialed for
dollars before how did they do it well
i gave them a script
and the script was super
simple it's not some some wild script
that they had memorized where they were
elite sales teams no
right it was a very simple script hi
this is bob
do you have a website where i could see
your menu that's what we say on the
phone
hey do you have a website where i can
see your menu
and then there is a decision tree if
they said no
right
uh if they like so they'd be like all
right odd question um can we see your
menu right they say uh you like you have
a menu and then now it's the kick kick
off the conversation right like hey do
you have a menu that would get the
conversation going right and then i
would say huh odd question but is the
business owner available so it didn't
matter if they had a menu or they didn't
have a menu it didn't matter it was just
to get them talking right then i would
say huh odd question is the business
owner available right and you're like
business owner who says that right
but then if they said no then i would
say hey what is their name and when are
they normally around right and if they
asked why i would say oh i'm a
boston-based web developer i make
websites and would love to help out a
local business if they said yes i am the
owner we would say great i'm a
boston-based web developer i make
websites and would love to help out a
local business if they say yes they are
busy i'll say great i'll call back in a
few minutes that was it
this was the simple script that we used
i had what was it five or six students
dialing for dollars this is not some
woof of wall street thing that like
folks are saying this was it this is
this super simple simple decision tree
and
there was two things that i held my
students to
right
two things
you could only ever get off the phone if
one of these two things happened
one
they had to agree to a package of at
least a hundred dollars
or two they had to hang up on you
that was it that was the only outcome
for my students the person had to agree
to a package
of at least a hundred dollars where we
set up their website
or they had to hang up on us and we were
calm
we were persistent but we weren't mean
we weren't pressuring them we were
asking lots of great questions good
qualifying deals right like we weren't
we weren't doing anything that would be
like
like bad we just weren't getting off the
phone until they agreed to a package or
they hung up on us right and we got hung
up on a lot but we were calm we were
cool we were collected we were
professional we were nice the whole time
we were trying to joke and have fun with
them
right and they would either hang up or
they agree and so my students did this
for all the restaurants that you just
saw and at the end of the day we had two
clients and the clients weren't for a
hundred dollars we had a client for i
think it was like 500 and 800
right and we yeah so we were like what's
inside we called this company
instadyne.tech it's not up anymore but
it was for a while we built a really
quick landing page using a template and
when people asked us who we were we
would say oh we're instadying.tech we're
a local
agency that helps restaurants like yours
and that's it
for dollars has
short and simple script and by the end
of that day we had two clients
so
you can start with friends you can start
with family you can start with
your
social you can as you're networking
letting folks know you can be local
using your listings and that doesn't
work you can always dial for dollars it
does work
now
i showed you
how i created a list
i gave you my script the call folks
it works
you're going to get hung up on a lot
you're going to uh get
rejected over and over and over again
but uh in the end
it works and some folks go really deep
into the sales world they watch the
video i asked you to watch today called
[__] you pay me and they start to really
like the sales process and they get
better at this outbound
uh outbound exactly is a numbers game
it's not
the game i really play anymore i have a
lot of inbound now but i did a lot of
networking to get that inbound coming in
so it's kind of a personal preference
which way you go about it inbound
outbound some people prefer
some some folks really hate the
networking piece so they'd rather just
talk to a thousand strangers that's just
what they like to do right it's up to
you
cat hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
alrighty what if getting away from cold
calling is one of the reasons i like the
sound of web development well good you
don't have to cold call to uh to get
clients i don't code call cold call
anymore ever to get clients mine's all
inbound um but i'm just showing
different strokes for different folks
right like some folks like the dialing
for dollars some folks really like the
networking some folks prefer just to
keep it friends family and social it's
up to you
alrighty
last
in this realm of finding clients
is going wide so you've done the local
game you've done everything you can
locally the next thing is going wide
so
there are kind of three big things when
it comes to going wide and this is also
the advice for folks that are not
they don't have a local area to invest
in right they're maybe not close to a
metro area local is not a thing for them
and so they have to start going wide
one of the first places that folks start
off by going wide are gig sites they'll
go to upwork or fiverr or freelance like
all these gig sites now
gig sites are really really hard because
you're competing against a lot of folks
and so if you're going to use gig sites
you have to do two things i've had
hundreds of students try using gig sites
the only ones that ever see be really
successful do two things
one they invest heavily and making sure
that their presence on that gig site is
all up to par they get all the all of
the like accoutrements you can put on
your profile everything
and then the second thing is they price
everything really high
right when you
use these gig sites there it's a term i
don't like to use but it's the truth
it's a race to the bottom
right
it's it's
it's this idea that there's so many
people competing and they're all just
racing they give the cheapest price
because they think
they think competing on price is the
thing to do
never ever ever compete on price it
doesn't help you land good clients the
clients that are that price sensitive
are not the clients you want to work
with if you go on these gig sites and
you price higher folks see that and they
go huh they must be providing a lot of
value to price it at a thousand when
everyone else is pricing it at a hundred
right and so the folks that did gig gig
sites the only way that it's ever worked
is by having a really tricked out
profile and then also valuing high
but otherwise i stay away from the gig
sites i've tried them all it's just
not the best time investment
there's a better time investment and
that's building authority
right
folks that build authority can get
around a lot so what do i mean by that
pick a niche
right pick a niche
if you are
in an area where there is no localness
you are fully remote you'll never have a
metro area near you where you can do
this in
or you're in an area some folks like to
think that certain areas are saturated
there rarely are but for some reason you
think maybe local can't work for you
the best strategy i have seen for folks
to get clients when they don't have a
local area to to balance off of is to
build authority around a niche so you
pick something and you become the expert
at that thing
it could be restaurants it could be
barber shops it could be nail salons it
could be something where you know that
industry inside and out and you build a
presence around that niche i've done
this before
with dental offices
i built up a whole agency that just
worked with dentists
it was great dentists are horrible
clients to work with but i had an
amazing blog i had a lot of content when
i would talk to dentists they would see
that i was the authority on how to get
clients to come into dental offices how
to build their web presence right
and so they would pick me over all the
other folks that were talking to them
because i built up authority you can do
this i don't care if you live in the
middle of nowhere have no network you
start today you pick your niche you
build a blog you build authority you put
out content
right
right you put out content
and you
slowly build up that train of content
and then you build out a list of folks
that are in that niche and you reach out
to them right
it takes a long time
but it's a way to get through it um you
can start a blog tonight node former
sponsor of the of the stream completely
free to start a blog sam has an amazing
blog that they started that helped them
build authority in the freelancing world
right in the freelancing world and so
yeah exclamation excitation point hash
note thank you and different um
you can start a blog tonight and so for
folks that can't go local building
authority is the way
to go
this would seem like a long-term
investment it is you're talking about
building a niche and becoming the expert
in it so that you can serve your clients
best
awesome
all right now
the next thing we're going to talk about
is we've built up our online presence
we're either going local or building
authority
now we we have found a client
and we start the conversations with
those clients
now it's time to build our proposal like
what are we sending to them what are we
negotiating with them how are we getting
them to pay us like how do we do the
pricing how do we how do we know like
what to charge them
well that's what we're going to talk
about next
but before we do so we're going to take
a break
so let's bring our five minutes up here
when we come back from five minutes
we're gonna talk about how do you price
effectively like how do you like
actually figure out how much you're
gonna charge someone right we're gonna
talk about the proposal you send to them
once you agree on what's going to be
built i'm going to show you
real actual proposal templates you can
use starting today i'm going to show you
real contracts that you can use starting
today
we're going to
paint a beautiful picture we're going to
walk through all that stuff together and
then we're going to take probably about
30 minutes to answer all your questions
you might have about freelancing
if you haven't already submit your
questions to the slido
and upload the questions you want to see
answered during the question and answer
period
alrighty folks uh let's start the timer
if you're able to please get up move
around hydrate uh let your eyes focus on
something that's not the screen and
we'll be back in five
i'm gonna run ads because we we should
be running ads
so folks don't get cut off during stream
all right cn5 folks
tinker said
i have a co-worker that i'm friendly
with there's a youtube channel but no
dedicated website do they count uh yeah
those count just like no like like not
your best friend or your family like you
want to push yourself to try this stuff
folks won't see ads if they have a sub
some folks asking
spell i use a shure sm7b
how many paid clients will you have by
the end of this cohort it's up to you
the requirements at least one
is paypal okay for taking payment uh it
can be if that's the way that works best
for you but um check is also good paypal
is weird because then you have to worry
about like chargebacks and stuff like
that
all right folks
drinking some cold brew tonight
yeah a lot of folks will use zell or
check or some sort of wire stripe there
are there are a bunch of platforms that
you can use
all right folks come on through come on
through
can you get a signed contract over email
yeah and there are plenty of platforms
that do contracts now to like docusign
and stuff like that
not shuffling paper anymore these days
really especially with the pandemic
all right
so
talk about a lot of ways
to
one build our presence
and two to
um
start finding clients and it's a process
at first finding clients is very hard
but it's something you tackle one at a
time you tackle building your presence
you tackle talking to friends and family
then you talk tackle trying to do it
while you're networking like it's pieces
that you build up over time right but
the thing is you can do it i've had
hundreds of students do it from all
walks of life
it feels really uncomfortable at first
but you have the skills you have the
ability
you will be able to do it and if you get
stuck or have questions or you're trying
to find ways to make it work for you ask
lots of questions uh especially this
coming weeks on discord
try and figure out something that's
going to work for you and then like i
said if there's things that are actual
barriers to you
doing this process we're going to decide
things that you can do either
volunteering
working on open source projects things
like that cool
alrighty so we've used some of these
channels to maybe get a client we're
starting to talk to them
we are going to want to send them a
proposal so what the heck is a proposal
a proposal is kind of like a simple walk
through
of what you are going to provide right
you are going to come to an agreement on
what they need and what you can provide
that satisfies those needs and then
you're going to send them a proposal
that details
everything that's going to be delivered
to them in the end and we're going to
talk about like how to come to that
agreement we're gonna talk about like
how to figure out what the charge for
that but for now let's just get that
proposal idea in our brain so we can
explain that in a second or two
so there are two really great proposal
uh templates that i recommend and that's
proposify and hand a doc uh they're both
completely free
and you can click through and look at
them i think we might give them the hug
of death uh so here's the proposifier
that i linked to
and it's just a really good template you
can see it's an overview of goals the
scope of services additional
recommendations and a bunch of other
stuff time frame all that stuff goes in
here so i actually recommend
right
i actually recommend
combining this proposify
and this panda doc one together
right like
there's there's
two
different ways about going through it
but you kind of take what you want from
each of them but
completely ready to go proposals you
don't have to pay somebody else you
don't define them they're completely
free this is what you're going to use
it's going to break down like what
you're going to do and what you're going
to send to the client in the end that's
what a proposal is right
the other thing folks kind of um worry
about our contracts we're going to get
that into a second
so here is a real example from one of my
past students that's now at amazon i
have their permission to share this with
you all
and so here's like what their proposal
looked like that they sent to a client
uh design logo for the organization uh
ibrahim has agreed that the client will
be able to request multiple edits of the
logo design
estimate for the logo design was 300
the final website development in qa
would be 700 and the total estimate
would be a thousand dollars when the
website is completed the client agrees
to pay a hundred dollars monthly that
keeps the website functional and updated
occasionally the client can end this
agreement anytime if they feel there's
no longer need for the service any
longer
so this is just a real example
of a simple piece of a proposal that has
actually
wound up paying one of my students a
thousand dollars
and uh they actually worked in a
retainer uh some students really like
the idea of a retainer having that
monthly coming in and so the retainer is
something that i no longer do but i used
to do a lot and the idea is that you can
charge clients
maybe one billable hour a month where
they know that each month they get at
least an hour of your time and you have
that recurring money coming in so a lot
of folks like to do that a lot of my
students do it
i don't do that anymore just because i
didn't want to be on the hook for it i
don't want calls at like three o'clock
in the morning to bring people's sights
back up and i didn't feel like i was
providing enough value or that time i
feel like i i felt like i
was kind of tricking them right like
they signed up maybe they used it for
the first month and they just forgot
about it and for me business
relationships are always about providing
value both ways and if i'm not providing
value i don't feel comfortable with it
so i stopped
you know
but this is a real world example
definitely give ibrahim a follow just
because people are don't share their
contracts people won't share their
proposals but this is like a real world
example where they broke it down
uh also
creating
logos and stuff like that is pretty easy
namecheap has a free logo maker that's
really easy to create logos i love it
namecheap is amazing i love their logo
maker
brand is 100 devs
create a free logo all right let's
create our our logo
uh with the namecheap logo maker
left middle or right chat left l m or r
lmr
all right we got m
l m or r left middle or right
oh this one's close you are going m
again
l m or r
if people are getting caught up in the
slow mode too well a lot a lot of l's
here
cool
l m or r
definitely l
ah middle yeah i think still the l
l m or r
well r has got it this time you want the
thick boys
and definitely a m again
cool
color
i was going to pick blue
blue green purple red brown or orange
throw it in chat
blue purple
red i think the the blues or greens have
it
uh
i'm gonna go
oh purple came through too green green
has it
all right
we go get
cool
uh favorite icon let's do like computer
search for computers
nah search for code
oh it's fancy i like that one
uh
i like
that one
maybe the thicker or that one too there
we go
uh maybe not this one maybe maybe the
that one
cool all right let's continue with those
three icons
there we go all right
so now there's like a bazillion
different logos that you can choose from
everyone you like the most
you all picked horrible fonts
y'all picked horrible thoughts uh oh i
like this one this one's clean
there we go
and there we go look looks good on the
business card it's good on the t-shirt
merch coming soon folks look at that
beautiful and then you can just download
it
and there you go
super easy
throw that in your proposal
you're off to the
to the races
that'll be 300 please
cool
so proposals you can use either one of
these examples or combine them i like
combining them uh this is a real world
example and then the last kind of piece
here is the the contract before we talk
about like how to price and how to send
the proposal okay so contracts are
something that kind of gets a lot of
folks kind of uneasy
uh they
they they don't know like what a
contract really is they get they get
nervous about it but contracts shouldn't
make you feel uneasy um they shouldn't
be scary
contracts are simply
there to protect both parties
right so a contract should be a two-way
thing it shouldn't be in favor it
shouldn't favor one person more than the
other it's actually like not a good
contract and might not hold up remember
i'm not a lawyer now this is legal
advice
but for me a contract is really
important
because it just says what happens when
something goes wrong
and as you are freelancing stuff will go
wrong
you will send out shitty proposals your
proposals get better with time
you will agree to things that maybe you
shouldn't have agreed to you will take
on clients that
pay you too little and ask for too much
right like freelancing is hard it takes
a while to get good at freelancing right
and so uh a contract is really just
there
to make sure the parties know what
happens when things go wrong not that
things will go wrong but if they do you
both know how things are going to shake
out the video i had you watch the [__]
you pay me video is all about this it's
just about like why contracts are good
why they help both parties and why you
should always use one now i actually
start off with friends families you
definitely need contracts even if my
mom's getting a contract right i don't
care who you are you're getting a
contract and you're getting a proposal
because contracts are there just to help
both parties and to
say what happens when things don't go
right
the closer you are to somebody the more
you want to contract because you want
that relationship to be good and for
both parties to agree to what happens
before things go wrong
right
right you you want a contract just so
that you know what happens when things
go wrong and to have thought thought
about those things and talk through them
together before something happens
it's not about trust it's not about
um
having to to to
enter into litigation or anything like
that it's just so that when things don't
happen the way that you expected them to
happen you know what the next steps are
and that just eases the process for
everyone
has nothing to do with like those other
pieces it's all about everyone coming
into an agreement as to how you're going
to treat the relationship
cool
i like to use the contract killer uh it
is a completely free contract uh that
you can use
right um that has all this stuff spelled
out
right it has all this stuff spelled out
you tell a story of a sign something
went wrong i like i told you in the
beginning anything you could mess up
i've messed up i have
done it all
i'll talk about it i'll talk about that
in a second let me let me talk about the
contracts and i'll talk about the time
things went wrong
all right
i like contract templates to start right
after you get your first client then you
upgrade so there are two contract
templates that i really like uh the
first is the contract killer template uh
you can click on it it's on github and
they also have their own website and
it's a full breakdown of everything that
you need to put into your contract for
when you're working right when you're
working with a client it's all here it's
everything you need not to worry about
anything else there's maybe like two
additions that i would make sure that
are also in here um but it's a really
great place to start
for your contract you don't have to
worry about figuring out something else
you can use this and be off the to the
races uh this is really cool i really
like the people that did this if you get
your first client and you use their
contract they have like a way to donate
to them i would donate if you get a
thousand dollar client and you use their
contract give them a donation that's
worth it to me um but
our one of our
fearless alumni that we always talk
about sam
they actually took this contract killer
and they changed some of the language so
contract killer is made by people in the
uk so there's some spelling there's some
like words that we might not use in the
us so sam went through it and actually
changed the wording
so that it matched
what we might say in the us and so
there's a second link here to like sam's
updates and i definitely highly
recommend that as well right so
depending on where you're coming from or
which one you want to use they're both
there so now you've have an online
presence you've figured out some ways to
find some clients you have a way to
create good proposals you have a good
way to write a decent contract
uh there are some important bits that i
want you to have in the contracts before
we talk about like sealing the deal and
closing the opportunity
right
the two big things
that you must have in every
single contract are the two paragraphs
here
never ever agree to do any work without
these
two
things in place the first thing is an
indemnification clause the
identification clause says hey
we're writing code
things can and will go wrong because
it's code it's never going to be
perfect and what this means is if the
code that i write that's something that
causes you to lose money or to
incur some damages in any way shape or
form it's not my fault that's the risk
that you're agreeing to when you work
with me and we write code that may not
be perfect right so
let's say you you went down the
restaurant
niche
right you went down the restaurant niche
and you build out a restaurant website
that has um
online ordering and that online ordering
platform messes up
and they drop they drop a couple orders
right so maybe they drop a couple
hundred dollars worth of orders that
indemnification clause saves it from
being your fault
right so you don't ever want to do work
without that first paragraph in line
because it stops them from coming after
you well it's not going to stop them
coming after you but it stops it from
being on your end right so always have
an indefinition clause and then the
second piece is
kind of
what happens and who owns the code that
you write
and so this this clause here
talks about giving a
i'm just going to read it and then i'll
explain what it means
we'll own any intellectual property
rights we've developed prior to or
developed separately from this project
and not paid for by you
we'll own the unique combination of
these elements that constitutes a
complete design and will license it to
you
once paid in full
exclusively and in perpetuity for this
project only unless we agree
otherwise so what this means is that
you don't own any of the other work that
i've done you only owe the you only own
the work that i've done for you and
technically
right technically you don't actually own
the work i do
i am giving you a license to this
content that is exclusive and in
perpetuity and for this project only now
why do you think we do this why do we
do this but give them a license an
exclusive license why do we do that
for our portfolios exactly
we still own it all so we can still
highlight it demo it on our portfolio
and if we're freelancing
there are probably pieces of our code
that we're going to reuse over and over
and over again in other projects so if
we don't own our code we can't reuse it
in other projects that doesn't make
sense we did we did all this work we
can't put on our portfolio that doesn't
make sense so we do our work
and we give them an exclusive perpetual
license to it so we can still be able to
do the work that we do
right now
the other big piece here was
once
paid in
full amazing movie um
they do not get this license
right
until they have paid us in full
right and so they might have seen the
work they might have been playing with
the work but they do not have any claim
to it until we have all of our
monies when you enter into an agreement
to work with someone i always recommend
you get a deposit
i only do work with 50 up front
i will never work with you unless you
pay me a 50 deposit up front
i do that 50 of the work right you're
happy with it then you pay another 25
up front
i work you feel happy with it
i finish
that last bit and i am paid in full and
once i am paid in full i transfer things
onto your server
you will never have access to the code
it'll never be on your servers you will
not have your license to it until
i am paid in full
is the deposit refundable absolutely not
because you're paying me to do the work
i don't want to get halfway through a
project and then you no longer want to
do it i only do work that i have been
paid for
i only do work that i've been paid for
so i'm going to do 50 of the work
because you've paid me 50 up front
you're going to pay me the next trunk
i'm going to do that work you're going
to pay me in full and i'll finish it out
all right and so that's how i save
myself from getting getting burned ask
me why
ask me why i do it that way somebody
asked me why i do it that way yes why
because i have been stiffed plenty of
times i have not gotten paid i have been
burned i've been people have tried to
pay me less anything that could happen
has happened and so i get a deposit
right and in fact actually my very first
project i got a deposit right i knew i
knew enough to ask for a deposit up
front that's how i bought my pasta and
pasta sauce so i've been burnt anyway
you can be burnt so
get a deposit only work for work that
has been paid for
now
when folks are first starting out it's
harder to ask for like 50 up front
but
something in good faith is always
worthwhile asking for 10 25
right you want to make sure that they
have skin in the game too it doesn't
make sense to do all this work for them
to just not pay you in the end
right
so don't get got make sure you have
these two important bits in your
contract
and then
the last thing i want to talk about
is how to close
you have an online presence
right you have an online presence
you start to reach out to
you start to reach out to clients
clients are reaching out to you
you're building out proposals that have
all the highlights of what you're going
to build for them you are sending out
good contracts
the last thing i want to talk about
is how to close
and
how i close
comes down to one magical question
i love being on the phone
for me whenever i'm working with a
client it's always on the phone
and i do one thing on the phone and one
thing only
tell me about your project that's it
there's not some amazing speech i give
them
not anything that's that's wild i just
say hey
it sounds like you have a really
interesting idea
tell me everything about your project
and i let them talk they'll talk for 30
minutes 40 minutes an hour sometimes if
i give them the time
and i'm taking really good notes
everything their dreams their wishes
their hopes their desires their third
grade crush
everything they could ever want in this
project i'm listening okay amazing i'm
digging a little bit deeper tell me a
bit more you said you want this thing
tell me a little bit more about that
thing right i just let them go off on
the largest
tangent ever about everything they could
ever want to be in this project right
and then at the end i say wow
this sounds like an amazing project
there's a lot here
what is your ballpark budget
and some folks go
how dare you ask me about money what do
you think i am right and you go wait a
minute there's a lot here we just talked
for 30 minutes about all the bells and
whistles and everything that you want i
need to know what budget you're working
with to build all of this stuff
because here's what i want to do for you
i want to build you a proposal that
highlights everything i can get done at
that budget now i could build a proposal
for a thousand dollars sorry i would
never say a thousand dollars i would say
i could build a proposal for ten
thousand dollars a hundred thousand
dollars i could put a proposal for one
million dollars that doesn't help us if
we're not in the same ballpark i don't
have that time to build out all these
different proposals at all these
different price points so what is your
ballpark budget
it doesn't have to be exact like where
what are we talking about we talking
about a thousand five thousand ten
thousand
right
and then they'll give you the budget
sometimes they'll say i actually what is
your hourly rate no no i don't do hourly
rate i need to know what your ballpark
budget so i i know where we're at least
talking about and i'll tell you
everything i can get done at that budget
you gave me a huge laundry list i'm
going to tell you exactly what i can get
done off this list that i think is the
most impactful and i'm going to get it
done at your budget
right so i never give them an hourly
rate and i'll have i'll keep saying this
over and over again and
99 of the time they'll eventually give
me the ballpark budget
uh
skipping hourly rate is really important
because hourly rate does nothing
there is uh an amazing youtube channel
called the future
which is about building an agency and
they have something that i there's this
one talk that i really love and they
talk about hourly rate and so the hourly
rate punishes me
right it punishes me christo exactly
that's their name christo
um punishes me for being good at my job
right because if i take more time
right
if i take more time
you pay me more money
but i'm not going to take that time i'm
good at my job so i'm going to do less
time but you're going to get a better
product so you're actually punishing me
for being good at my job
that doesn't make sense so how about you
give me your ballpark budget i let you
know
what i can get done at that budget and
if we agree great if not i'm going to
connect you with three other freelancers
that might be able to do more for you
right at that price point
so i would love to build you a wonderful
proposal that takes in everything that
we just talked about at your budget that
i think would be a huge win for you and
your business but if it doesn't work out
that's okay i'll connect you with some
folks that i know are really great
friends that won't steer you wrong
that's it
that's it they give you the ballpark
budget and then you build them a
phenomenal proposal
that takes into account all the things
you wrote down about what they want that
you think you can get done at that price
point and you're doing the back of the
the menu like the back of the the back
of the napkin numbers and your brain be
like all right i think it's going to
take me this amount of time so this is
how much i can get done right but you
you do that on your end
right you think about all right if the
ballpark budget is 5 dollars what can i
get done for them at that five thousand
dollars that leaves me the things i need
left right
you're gonna need to think through that
that like all right
i think it's going to take me
this number of hours i want to make this
amount of money per hour right you do
that all yourself you're not ever going
to share that with them but you're
trying to figure out all right what can
i build at that price point
all right
when you're talking to clients there's a
couple big things you need to keep in
mind the what is your ballpark budget is
the magic question but when you're
talking with clients i need to do a few
things you need to be firm
right not mean not pushy but firm
right
don't let someone try and convince you
to take less money or to do more work
those clients never
work out be firm of what you can get
done at what price point and that means
you're going to lose some clients
but that is always a good thing
losing a client is the best thing that
could ever happen because if it's
starting off like trouble
it's going to be trouble and it's going
to end with trouble right so be firm
be clear in what you can get done and
what you can provide and what you can do
and then there's two things that you
must always live up to as a freelancer
under promise
and then over deliver
right
under promise the things that you can do
and then
exceed their wildest expectations
right
the other thing that you have to do as
you're negotiating or figuring out
what's going to go into the proposal is
that you have to leave room to get help
both in time and money every contract i
have ever worked on
i take how long i think it's going to
take me to finish and i double it
if i think it's going to take me a month
i say two months if i think it's gonna
take me two months i say four if i think
it's gonna be three i say six
i leave myself enough room that if i get
in trouble i can get help this is the
biggest thing you have to do for your
first freelancing client because you
might run into some trouble and you're
going to need to get help right so i
always leave room in my timeline to get
help from other folks and i always leave
room in my budget to get help from other
engineers
a lot of times there might be problems
that i can't solve on my own and i'll
need to bring in some other engineer to
help me with that problem so i always
leave room my budget for that to happen
if i really do feel like i can really
crush the project and i don't think i
would have any trouble i still leave
room for something odd to come up maybe
there's some like weird bit of
functionality that i don't feel
comfortable building out and i'll bring
someone else on
right
a lot of times with higher paid clients
i'm upfront with it hey i'm really good
at talking with clients
making sure that you're getting the best
value like best value out of this
relationship possible but i work with a
team of other engineers they're going to
help me get some of the work done right
and so always leave room for time and
always leave room for money
get a deposit we already talked about
this
in the beginning your deposits might be
lower and then you'll build up to
getting at least a 50 deposit
and then it's time to deliver the goods
right
delivering the goods comes down to a few
things remember when we're delivering on
the project we've we've done all the
hard work we built out our
we built out our presents we've done the
work to get the client in the door
uh we've given them a monster proposal
we've given them a monster contract
they're super happy with the value that
we're going to provide
at the price point that we feel
comfortable doing it we left ourselves
room in both time and money now it's
time to deliver
the goods when it comes to delivering
the goods remember always under promise
always over deliver and always
communicate
regularly
people that communicate regularly can
get away with
anything they want when working with a
client if you are
if you are communicating regularly
you can get away with being
a little short on time you can get away
with sometimes asking for more money
the most common thing that happens with
folks
when they hire or work with
another freelancer is that they get
ghosted or they don't really know what's
happening
every friday send your client an email
here's what we got done here's where
we're gonna go
this is where we're at
every friday every friday my clients get
an email i don't care if i got nothing
done that week or if i got everything
done this week they have to know that
consistently i'm not going to leave them
in the dark i'm going to communicate and
they're always going to know where we
stand
this will help you get out of so much
hot water when you need an extra week
they're going to give it to you every
single time because they never had to
guess where you were
if you're a little over budget on
something they'll at least come back to
the table
right
so i like to make sure every friday my
clients get an email i actually schedule
them
and then i add more stuff to them as the
week goes on and then i actually ping
them on wednesdays too so on wednesday
i'll be like oh we just did this really
cool thing right so wednesday to get a
message that says
i hope you're doing well today like we
just did this really cool thing this
feature's live look at it on the test
server whatever and then friday is like
the formal update here's everything we
did the week
at the end that's why my clients come
back
right time and time again my clients
have come back because
they value that communication and how
quick i am with it and how much detail i
give right a lot of folks hold stuff
back they're afraid to give the full
picture no i don't care if it's good i
don't care if it's bad you're going to
get you're going to always know where i
stand and that
takes a lot of weight off their
shoulders it gives them a lot of relief
and they'll come back for that
and so that kind of leads me to
this idea of of kind of
coming back
there's one other step here and then we
talk about this idea of coming back uh
get help when you need it right you're
communicating regularly there might be
start to realize wait i'm not gonna hit
this deadline i'm not gonna be able to
figure this thing out get help you've
left enough room to get help you left
enough room to figure things out get
help come to discord i don't know how to
solve this problem right there'll be so
many people that are ready ready to help
you even with your client work there
will be so many folks that maybe you can
bring on board to help with the project
right and so get help right get help
don't suffer in silence make sure you
get help especially when working with
clients right
so many folks from 100 devs last cohort
came to discord when they were working
on their client projects to talk through
details to figure things out to ask for
recommendations about how to solve
problems that's what we're here for make
sure you ask for help even with client
work
cool
last thing is reinvest
all this stuff is going to suck at first
your proposals are going to suck your
contracts are going to suck your your
portfolio site's going to suck it just
is because we're we're using stuff off
the shelf we're doing it just to to get
stuff done we're bad as we write bad
code right but as you get that first
client in take that money to reinvest
and and if you have the privilege to
reinvest right if you have the privilege
to reinvest use that to bolster
everything
now
i talked about this idea before we get
into the investment about like clients
coming back and why that's so important
uh
i've had years
where my income has relied on
freelancing if i'd if i wasn't
freelancing i wouldn't have had any
money in some of the years that i've
been doing this right when things got
tough i knew i could freelance to bring
money in the door i've had years where i
have freelanced
my freelancing has brought in more money
than my day job
right and so this could be a really
powerful thing
but what i don't want folks to think is
that it's easy
it is very hard to freelance it is very
hard to go out on your own
right and have the the amount of clients
it takes to sustain your salary right so
many folks think oh i'm going to quit my
job i'm going to freelance and that's
going to be it no
freelancing is the most stressful thing
you will ever do
if
that's what you rely on if you don't
have an emergency fund right
if you don't have an emergency fund and
you go a month without a client that
[__] will will devastate you i the the
lowest lows i've had
are when i was freelancing and didn't
have enough money in the bank to like
tie me through to the next client
so when folks are thinking about this i
need you to keep in mind that
freelancing is something that at first
is supplemental and you can build up to
it and eventually the way most
freelancers make their money
is through repeat clients
i looked at my my contracting from the
past couple years
of my freelancing income came from one
client
came from one client that came back
continuously time after time we call
these evergreen clients it's really hard
to find an evergreen client but it's
what makes up most freelancers money
they have some clients that just come
back with work time and time again
and they come back to me
right because i get what they need to
get done at a good budget
i communicate my ass off and they're
never left in the dark about what the
heck's going on so they give me all
their business
i say that to highlight that all the
other freelancers that i know that
freelance full-time
they either have an amazing network or
they have a few of those evergreen
clients that they can rely on and they
have a war chest like six months of
expenses fully ready rocked and rolled
that's not touching anything else so
that if they get through a slump where
they're not getting any new clients
they're good to go
so
i say that
because if your goal is to just do
freelancing you're in for a really wild
ride do i have lots of friends that do
it yes do they love it some of them do
some of them hate it but just know that
you need to
build up to it right all these things we
talked about tonight are not easy and at
first they're going to be kind of
they're going to be pretty hard and not
really that great
all right
after your first client if you have the
privilege reinvesting those monies can
be
put to really good use
right
you can be uh can be put to put the good
use right you can
build a better portfolio you can build a
better proposal you can build a better
contract you might want to set up a
business entity you might want to bring
in a lawyer to look at your proposals to
look at your contracts you might need a
cpa or a bookkeeper to handle all the
inbound stuff that you're coming in
right and so after your first client if
you have the privilege do things the
right way
right i showed you the freeway
that's good enough to get started once
you have monies coming in
maybe and reinvest if you have the
privilege in doing things a little bit
better
right
right and so
a lot of folks ask me leon do i need a
business entity do i need an llc not in
the beginning
llcs limited liability corporations what
they do is they help protect you from
your
assets
if you don't have any assets you don't
need an llc
nobody's coming after your bubble gum
collection right so if you don't have a
house or expensive car or things like
that nobody's coming after you for for
nothing right so you don't need an llc
an llc is just there to protect you
like your business from your assets
right so a lot of people like come out
the gate with an llc you know like you
just wasted five ten grand setting all
that up um because you used the lawyer
to do it when you could have just went
through the like state's
way of doing it which would have cost
you way like a tenth of that right um
so just be careful
the the first the first run through this
your first few clients give you the cash
flow if you have the privilege to use
that then you reinvest in all this other
stuff
yeah
yeah llc's don't cost 5 10k you can
normally if you're in the us each state
has a different process anywhere from
like 50 bucks to i think west california
now like 5 800 like each each state's
different right or you can use like one
of those services to help you set it up
but in the beginning you don't need any
of that get some clients coming in the
door and then reinvest those monies and
things that you might need to do the
right way
cool
and once again i'm not a tax
professional i'm not a lawyer all this
is just ramblings of things that i've
learned on my journey through this
right back at it hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
alrighty
so
we talked a lot tonight folks
we talked about
we talked about building our online
presence i gave you some good examples
that i hope you go back to look at their
portfolios look at their twitters look
at their linkedins
copy everything
right
was it good artist copy great artist
steal right the reason i gave you all
these things is that you can go back and
use them look at them make them your own
look at their twitters looked at their
linkedins
then we talked about how to get clients
think about what strategy you're going
to use first you're going to talk to
friends family you're going to put it on
all your social you're going to talk
about it when you do your networking
this week maybe you're going to dabble
in some
doing some local postings maybe you're
going to dabble in a little bit of cold
calling whatever you need to do think
through some things get the ball rolling
at first it's hard it feels weird it
feels awkward it feels uncomfortable but
it gets easier
with time
all right then we looked at some
proposals you could go you're going to
go back look at those proposals you're
going to see oh that's they laid out
that's how they do a timeline that's how
they break down the design and all that
stuff right then you can look at the
contract oh that's what the contractor
said there's too much detail for us to
cover it in one class you got to go back
and look at it right then we talked
about
how to close how to seal the deal the
magic question what's your ballpark
budget we talked about how to price
don't price hourly price based on their
ballpark budget provide them a proposal
at that level where you can get done at
that level
and then in the end we talked about how
to reinvest right you got some money's
coming in if you have the privilege we
use them the everything set up
cool
so we got about 20 minutes left and i i
promised that i would save it for
questions so
you can use the slido link
at slido.com use exclamation point ask
here in in discord sorry discord in
twitch chat and you'll get the link
and i'm gonna go through the questions
cause i know there's a lot of questions
about this uh we're gonna have a couple
of our office hour sessions where we
just spend time on this freelancing
stuff right so i know there's a lot here
and there's a lot of other questions you
might have and so
we'll have time where we talk about this
again right this is not our only class
where we talk about freelancing we're
going to incorporate a lot of this stuff
into our homework it's not that's going
to come up in classes over and over but
let's go ahead and take a look at some
of these questions then we'll end with a
raid
all right
first question remember you can upload
the questions that you care about
how do we handle hosting for a website
for a client you use netlify right you
open up netlify you drag it in and
you're done well let's see if i can
make sure let me see real quick that
will find accounts drop
all right here we go
so here's netlify.com drop you literally
drag a folder onto this location and
you're done so i would typically ask my
client to set up a netlify account
uh they'll share their credentials with
me in something like lastpass or i don't
know
one password any of the password
managers they'll share it with me
and then i will take a folder so let's
um
let's look at bachelor code from last
class
all right here we go here's my bachelor
code
number one
i'm just going to drag the folder here
it's uploading
and then boom here you go the site is
live
that's the link you can change this link
to be whatever you want and we're good
now
bit warden exactly any of those password
magic doesn't matter whatever whatever
you use um and then you can change that
link if you want so a lot of times uh
it's on their account i don't use my
account i make them set up their own
stuff sometimes when i'm ready when i'm
ready to host it for them remember i'm
always working on my server right on my
netlify until they've paid me in full
and then i go and do this on their
server
right that's it
and so you saw me do it in three seconds
i literally just dragged it over we can
go ahead and change this url if we want
so uh normally i'll set one up where it
is like the client's name at netlify on
my account show it once they pay me in
full i do the same thing for their
account
we're done and dusted now if you're
doing full stack web applications of
course hosting is a little bit different
we're not there yet
cool
next question
hi leon how are we supposed to deliver a
website for a client don't we need to
know quite a bit about hosting databases
back in in general no
most of your clients at first will just
be static sites uh just like
just basic stuff html css a little bit
of javascript you're gonna be using
templates for most of this stuff
that's it
right and so you won't really need any
anything else you won't need databases
or things like that once we get further
into the cohort and you learn how to do
back-end web development then yes then
you'll need some other things but by at
that point you'll know how to do all
those things as well
should we use other hosts not really the
other hosts are more complicated they
don't give you as many features and
they're not free all of them so i really
do like netlify for this like simple
stuff
yeah do they give you passwords no we
use a password manager so i'll get them
set up with any of the normal password
managers bitwarden lastpass one password
they'll put all your they'll create
their accounts they'll put their
passwords in there and they can share
them with me when it comes time to
transfer stuff remember everything's
done on my servers until i'm ready to to
put it on their servers and that's when
we ask for all the passwords and stuff
what about github the host yeah that's
fine
how many sets can we deploy on netlife i
don't know if there's a max it's a
lot
what do you recommend for getting paid
like an invoicing system that's kind of
your personal preference
checks zell is typically the way to go
i've even done like cash app and venmo
with some more hipper clients
eventually once you have a lot of
freelancing work coming in you'll use a
bigger platform to do your freelancing a
lot of folks use like fresh books or
xero or quickbooks or things like that
but in the beginning you don't need any
of that stuff you don't need to pay for
any of that stuff you can just ask for a
check or a zell transfer or something
like that
yeah
and you send them an invoice you send
them an invoice yeah
there's a you can just google invoice
generator and that's what i've used for
pretty much all my invoices
what kind of work should we avoid uh
that's up to you i think anything that
makes you feel uncomfortable just don't
do if the client's asking for too much
and too little time if the client's
asking for too much with too little
money you just gotta let those clients
go it should be a good you should feel
good going into an arrangement if you
ever feel like it has it isn't going
well like the contract didn't go well
the proposal didn't go well it's time to
stop and let that client go it's you
should both feel happy you should both
feel like you're both getting value
right the clients you feel like they're
getting a tremendous amount of value
you should feel like you're getting a
tremendous amount of time and money for
your your services
right
if you're under 18 can you land a
freelancing gig yeah i've had a lot of
folks under 18 get get jobs as
freelancers
anonymous that i love you all right
should we include monthly maintenance in
our contract or is it more a headache
than it's worth
that is a huge decision that you will
have to make for yourself
a lot of my students love maintenance
contracts
i personally used to do them a lot i
don't do them anymore i really want i
realize that my clients come back
because i provide a lot of value
you might be providing a lot of value
with that maintenance contract if you're
not providing value then i wouldn't do
it
i i don't like maintenance contracts
cause some folks kind of like sucker
people into them or like they don't they
feel like oh i'm not going to do any
work and i still get money each month i
think that's the wrong way to go about
your freelancing the way that my
freelancing has always grown is because
people have been always well not always
like i've had some stuff go bad right
but by and far most folks have been like
leon was great to work with and they
tell other people that's how your
freelancing grows right and so i i if i
don't if i'm not giving a lot of value i
don't want to do it
what's an example of maintenance you
would do sometimes they want to update
some text they want to
make some quick changes maybe they want
to replace a menu each each month right
or maybe the site went down and they
need some help getting it back up stuff
like that
can you show the password manager for
clients it's just you're going to use
lastpass bitwarden onepass just google
password managers and pick one it's not
really like anything special
lastpass yeah just use one and that's
only at the end that's after you've
built everything remember everything's
on your servers until the end
are we responsible for the copy on the
site sometimes it's up to you
um if i'm working with a client that has
no idea what they want sometimes i'll
throw that into my proposal hey i'm
doing the design which will be a
template i'm doing the copy which is
just stuff i'm gonna make up right and
that all adds to the money in the
proposal
sometimes you'll work with a copy editor
or you work with somebody else to do the
copy or they already have copy they want
to throw in it's kind of up to you
if we build a website with squarespace
wix etc is that something you can put in
your portfolio yeah absolutely
yeah
what is copy copy is like the text on a
website
like the text on the website yeah like
the words that you put yeah
yeah text on the on the site
um
a lot of freelancers or folks when
they're new to freelancing
get they get worried about squarespace
or they get worried about wic so they
get worried about like these static site
builders
but they're just tools that you can use
to make your life easier
a lot of clients some some clients want
to use them and so it's up to you to
decide if you're going to use them or
not or if your clients want them or not
but they're just tools right somebody's
running a business doesn't want to have
to learn how to use those tools
they might
but a lot of these folks that i work
with
early on were older they they didn't
like
want to
invest the time they had like kids and
like
they're they're at their jobs all day
long and then at night they want to
spend time with their family they don't
want to be investing their nights and
weekends in learning how to use
squarespace or wix right so they pay me
to not have to worry about it and then
even if they did use those other website
builders right
they something happens right like they
don't know how to like make that bigger
or move it around right and then it just
caused them headaches they'd rather pay
me to come in and do their logo do their
design do the do the setting up the site
make sure it all works and have someone
to talk to to help with ideas to help
figure out how to do online payments and
all this stuff that they don't know how
to do your job as a software engineer is
to solve problems and the moment you
become a freelancer not only are you
solving technical problems but you're
solving business problems too and so
instead of them having to think about
how to do it you do that research
if they're a restaurant and they want to
offer online ordering it's your job to
figure out what is the best way to get
them hooked up with online ordering
right you have to do the research you'll
have to play around with it you have to
ask questions on discord and then bake
that into the site right
you're going to figure out how to do all
this and at first you you just ask a lot
of questions right and you figure it out
what are your feelings on wordpress it's
good certain clients really like it a
lot of clients will ask for a cms or a
content management system something
where they can go in and make quick
changes and not have to bother you to
make those changes wordpress is one of
the biggest versions of those so a lot
of clients ask for it
and then you'll have to watch a tutorial
on how to use wordpress it's not hard
you'll figure it out
but there are plenty of other cms's that
are way easier to get up and running
than um
than uh
then wordpress including netlife netlife
has their own cms built in which is
pretty cool
how quickly do you make a proposal oh
amazing question i hope we still have
everyone this is a huge bit of
information that i did not share early
on that i need it to
on the conversation where i asked them
the magical question this i'm so glad
you asked that question i would have
been really pissed if i had forgotten
this all right
when you
finish that conversation about the
ballpark budget
right
and they give you the ballpark budget
your immediate response should be great
i'm going to build you a proposal that
incorporates all the things we talked
about at that budget
do you have time to talk on thursday
right like the next day like do you have
time to talk this week how about
thursday so today's tuesday i would say
hey i'm gonna build you an amazing
proposal i'm going to send you the
proposal tonight you're going to get
that proposal tonight it's it's it's 9
but you're going to get the proposal
tonight i work quick
i deliver a lot of value and i want to
show you that we're going to start this
relationship off right so tonight you're
going to get the proposal
do you have time this week to discuss
the proposal together
how about thursday
you make sure that you have scheduled
the next call
right
it doesn't have to be tonight it could
be tomorrow right like i'm gonna get
this thing in your inbox first thing
tomorrow morning right
right
but you you make sure that you get it to
them quickly and then you don't hang up
until you know the next time you're
talking to them
you don't want the lead to fizzle
right
a lot of times you'll send a proposal
and then you'll go back and forth for a
week trying to find the next time if
you're already talking to them make sure
you set up the next call send them a
calendar invite saying discussing such
and such proposal
right
and then you work on the proposal you
send it to them as quickly as you can
same day next day
in that proposal you say look really
looking forward to our call on thursday
on thursday you get in that call and you
work through the proposal with them you
i like to do it on the phone because you
can hear
you can hear what they like what they
don't like you can hear the uh or i
don't know right and then you can
massage the proposal to fit what they're
looking for sometimes you might charge a
little bit more money maybe you might
maybe you might do a little bit less
right maybe you negotiate on time one of
the biggest things i negotiate on before
we leave the proposal stage and go to
the contract stage is how long i'm going
to take the work on it sometimes
i won't negotiate more money i'll just
negotiate hey
you know what this is a big project it's
going to take me more time so instead of
four months how about five or six
right
and so the idea here is that you want to
make sure that you don't let leads
fizzle you have the magic question
what's your ballpark budget you're going
to get the proposal same next day then
you already scheduled a call to talk to
them next
cool
are you normally one client at a time no
i normally have like two clients at a
time
sometimes more sometimes less
how do i price things that we don't know
how to do you're never pricing anything
you're looking at their budget and
you're going to think through what you
can do at that budget so if they say
they have a budget of 3000 you're going
to look through everything they want and
you're going to sit there like hmm
is there a reasonable way for me to
build what they want you're going to
google you're going to look at you're
going to look at different builders
you're going to look at different tools
you're going to look at different things
is there a way for me to piece through
what they want and can i give myself
enough time and enough money to get it
done
right
so you never pricing anything you're
just working off their budget and what
you think you can get done at that
budget
you've got a hundred dollar budget i'll
i'll give you a wink and a smile and
send you an invoice right like i'll work
with you i don't care what your budget
is i'll tell you what i can get done at
that budget um i take every meeting
anybody that has an idea i take the
meeting i find a way to provide them
value even if it's a wink and a smile
and a firm handshake right i've given a
lot of firm handshakes and never worked
with that person but i try to hand them
off to other engineers that might be
able to work with them at that price
point
you know
and so i actually have referred a lot of
folks to other people and when they have
a bigger project they come back to me
they remember how i treated them they
remember i still gave them 30 minutes of
my time that i still answered all their
questions and then i referred to
somebody that worked really great with
them so they either go back to that
person they come to me with the larger
project
how would you fire a client that's
typically in my contract there is a walk
away clause that's in all my contracts
what does 200 of web dev look like
that's up to you and how much you want
to build
a lot of my students by this point in
program
they can they can take a template and
write some html and css to make it look
good to plug in their info right let's
say you have a restaurant you would find
a restaurant template you plug in all
their info it might take you four hours
and that might be a two hundred dollar
project for you four hours of work at
fifty dollars an hour is not bad
um the original
the original two projects that i did
like the original two packages we sold
in the example where we dialed for
dollars that was 500 and 800. if you're
working minimum wage you just made
minimum wage in one day
like your whole month you made your
whole month's salary in one day if you
do this process right
so it's kind of up to you and what you
feel like you want to get done at that
price point
and then remember taxes and stuff like
that as well
what do we show our first client as a
portfolio or skill set based on what we
know right now
look at blah's portfolio
they got a thousand dollar client
and an amazing job and the stuff that's
on their portfolio are the homework
assignments that we did
this is the homework assignment right
here
i've i've already given you
what needs to be on your portfolio
if you have done the homework you've
made the homework your own you have
portfolio pieces
y'all get it now
you see what i'm trying to do
i'm trying to build what i'm trying to
shape you into it all builds on top of
each other we add pieces block by block
by block and we make it
right do you get it there's a reason why
i gave you
the hair salon
there's a reason why i gave you a
restaurant website we just talked for
four hours about a restaurant website
three hours of our restaurant website do
you get it now do you see
do you see what i'm trying to do
ah
i love that question
all right let's let's answer like five
more questions and then we'll do a raid
more questions and we'll do a raid
we don't get got
we go
exactly we don't get guy we go get
all right how do you pass a sniff test
when you're building a template website
for clients they don't know and they
probably won't ever
you know it's up to you to massage the
templates to look good
but a lot of times you'll they'll have
no idea like if we look at blah's
site
this is this is a template this this
looks like a template i think it's
template but this is beautiful this is
perfect don't snitch on yourself
and ship it this looks great
what what hair salon wouldn't be
um happy with that you know so it just
it just won't come up
i'm currently laid off by taking a
client i would void my unemployment what
suggestions to avoid this
talk to the unemployment office i have
seen folks make deals with unemployment
to be able to do freelancing so first
step is to talk to unemployment i have
tons of folks that have still been able
to freelance and be unemployment at the
same time don't do anything that would
[__] up your unemployment so talk to
them first
um
and like i said we're going to offer
other suggestions that'll help you get
rid of that smell right that'll be like
working on um open source projects
that'll be
volunteering things like that you can do
all this stuff but not have the payment
piece
still have contracts you still have
proposals you you so my favorite thing
is like if you
save applies to disability exactly
my favorite thing is like if you know
that you can't charge you still do the
exact same process and then you give
them a discount on your services so you
you you find a non-profit that needs all
this stuff right and you they have a
budget of five thousand dollars you go
through the exact same process and you
go you know what
i really enjoy working with you all i'm
gonna give you a five thousand dollar
discount on this first project but
i need you to be a reference customer uh
for not only this like for any future
clients that i have any jobs things like
that i'll give you a five thousand
dollar discount we'll get this project
done at no cost but you have to be the
best reference that has ever existed in
tarnation and i'm gonna put you to work
for a couple of other contracts
right
so you still do everything the same way
and you still get value the value to you
might be different though
what's a good timeline strategy
whatever you think it might take you you
double so
i think most of my like first timers do
like around four months for their
project
what do we do with the clips i'll create
a thread in
uh probably the general channel after
class
uh my wife owns a marketing firm she's
willing to pass me some work helping her
with editing websites also creating
websites would this be okay i think it's
great to do but push yourself to get
clients that come not from close friends
or family
so i think it's still great to do
but you still want to push yourself to
figure out this process independent of
that
all right templates red flags and
interviews no
um what's the best way to handle billing
collecting payment kind of already
talked about this there are plenty of
services online that help you but just a
normal check or zell is also fine just
make sure it's in the in the comment
all right
what if i'm not entirely confident in my
ability to code yet especially with
javascript
doesn't matter
i would say most of my students that get
clients don't know javascript yet
right yeah they just don't because it's
only html and css you're talking about
like taking a template and filling in
their info that doesn't take any
javascript it's just html or css and
you'll your javascript skill will
increase your backend skills will
increase and then you'll keep adding
stuff onto this as you go
there's a lot more questions here
uh so i actually really like these
questions keep adding questions keep
uploading questions and i think i'm
going to do like a special session this
week maybe the tomorrow night i might
just play pokemon and answer your
freelancing questions or something weird
just because there's a lot of them and
we're going to answer more during office
hours but if folks want to keep asking
more freelancing questions i think we'll
just create like a time to to answer
those questions so
i'll probably go live like either yeah
probably tomorrow or friday
um
and we'll just we'll just go through
rest of these questions thoughts on gen
9 i'm all for it i i'll always play a
mainline game um but yeah so we'll find
a time to answer more of these questions
this sunday we're going to do a more
like in-depth office hours we're going
to do html and css review we're going to
look at some layouts we're going to add
javascript to those layouts and then
we'll talk a little bit more about
freelancing as well i think that office
hours will go a little bit later than we
normally do them and so let's go ahead
and end with a lovely
raid uh you know we like to
we like to spread some love some
positivity you haven't given them a
follow give them a follow give them some
likes and then i will see you all
i will see you all
on thursday if not tomorrow let's go
ahead and raid
i'm gonna set it up right now one second
alrighty
let's see
all right hiccup interactive is live uh
they're amazing developer they also do
like game development so let's go ahead
and give them a raid
remember you get extra channel points
for for doing the raid i'll see you all
over there have a good rest of your
night hope you're excited to start
freelancing let's get some let's do a
raid
thank you everyone hope you had a great
night
be over there
peace